
    (a) In General.--The Bureau may prescribe rules to ensure that the 
features of any consumer financial product or service, both initially 
and over the term of the product or service, are


fully, accurately, and effectively disclosed to consumers in a manner 
that permits consumers to understand the costs, benefits, and risks 
associated with the product or service, in light of the facts and 
circumstances.
    (b) Model Disclosures.--
            (1) In general.--Any final rule prescribed by the Bureau 
        under this section requiring disclosures may include a model 
        form that may be used at the option of the covered person for 
        provision of the required disclosures.
            (2) Format.--A model form issued pursuant to paragraph (1) 
        shall contain a clear and conspicuous disclosure that, at a 
        minimum--
                    (A) uses plain language comprehensible to consumers;
                    (B) contains a clear format and design, such as an 
                easily readable type font; and
                    (C) succinctly explains the information that must be 
                communicated to the consumer.
            (3) Consumer testing.--Any model form issued pursuant to 
        this subsection shall be validated through consumer testing.

    (c) Basis for Rulemaking.--In prescribing rules under this section, 
the Bureau shall consider available evidence about consumer awareness, 
understanding of, and responses to disclosures or communications about 
the risks, costs, and benefits of consumer financial products or 
services.
    (d) Safe Harbor.--Any covered person that uses a model form included 
with a rule issued under this section shall be deemed to be in 
compliance with the disclosure requirements of this section with respect 
to such model form.
    (e) Trial Disclosure Programs.--
            (1) In general.--The Bureau may permit a covered person to 
        conduct a trial program that is limited in time and scope, 
        subject to specified standards and procedures, for the purpose 
        of providing trial disclosures to consumers that are designed to 
        improve upon any model form issued pursuant to subsection 
        (b)(1), or any other model form issued to implement an 
        enumerated statute, as applicable.
            (2) Safe harbor.--The standards and procedures issued by the 
        Bureau shall be designed to encourage covered persons to conduct 
        trial disclosure programs. For the purposes of administering 
        this subsection, the Bureau may establish a limited period 
        during which a covered person conducting a trial disclosure 
        program shall be deemed to be in compliance with, or may be 
        exempted from, a requirement of a rule or an enumerated consumer 
        law.
            (3) Public disclosure.--The rules of the Bureau shall 
        provide for public disclosure of trial disclosure programs, 
        which public disclosure may be limited, to the extent necessary 
        to encourage covered persons to conduct effective trials.

    (f) Combined Mortgage Loan Disclosure.--Not 
later &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline. Public comment.&gt;&gt;  than 1 year after the 
designated transfer date, the Bureau shall propose for public comment 
rules and model disclosures that combine the disclosures required under 
the Truth in Lending Act and sections 4 and 5 of the Real Estate 
Settlement Procedures Act of 1974, into a single, integrated disclosure 
for mortgage loan transactions covered by those laws, unless the Bureau 
determines that any proposal issued by the Board of Governors and the 
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development carries out the same purpose.


