                          PROTECTION FUNCTIONS.

    (a) Defined Terms.--For purposes of this subtitle--


            (1) the term ``consumer financial protection functions'' 
        means--
                    (A) all authority to prescribe rules or issue orders 
                or guidelines pursuant to any Federal consumer financial 
                law, including performing appropriate functions to 
                promulgate and review such rules, orders, and 
                guidelines; and
                    (B) the examination authority described in 
                subsection (c)(1), with respect to a person described in 
                subsection 1025(a); and
            (2) the terms ``transferor agency'' and ``transferor 
        agencies'' mean, respectively--
                    (A) the Board of Governors (and any Federal reserve 
                bank, as the context requires), the Federal Deposit 
                Insurance Corporation, the Federal Trade Commission, the 
                National Credit Union Administration, the Office of the 
                Comptroller of the Currency, the Office of Thrift 
                Supervision, and the Department of Housing and Urban 
                Development, and the heads of those agencies; and
                    (B) the agencies listed in subparagraph (A), 
                collectively.

    (b) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (c), consumer 
financial protection functions are transferred as follows:
            (1) Board of governors.--
                    (A) Transfer of functions.--All consumer financial 
                protection functions of the Board of Governors are 
                transferred to the Bureau.
                    (B) Board of governors authority.--The Bureau shall 
                have all powers and duties that were vested in the Board 
                of Governors, relating to consumer financial protection 
                functions, on the day before the designated transfer 
                date.
            (2) Comptroller of the currency.--
                    (A) Transfer of functions.--All consumer financial 
                protection functions of the Comptroller of the Currency 
                are transferred to the Bureau.
                    (B) Comptroller authority.--The Bureau shall have 
                all powers and duties that were vested in the 
                Comptroller of the Currency, relating to consumer 
                financial protection functions, on the day before the 
                designated transfer date.
            (3) Director of the office of thrift supervision.--
                    (A) Transfer of functions.--All consumer financial 
                protection functions of the Director of the Office of 
                Thrift Supervision are transferred to the Bureau.
                    (B) Director authority.--The Bureau shall have all 
                powers and duties that were vested in the Director of 
                the Office of Thrift Supervision, relating to consumer 
                financial protection functions, on the day before the 
                designated transfer date.
            (4) Federal deposit insurance corporation.--
                    (A) Transfer of functions.--All consumer financial 
                protection functions of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
                Corporation are transferred to the Bureau.
                    (B) Corporation authority.--The Bureau shall have 
                all powers and duties that were vested in the Federal 
                Deposit Insurance Corporation, relating to consumer 
                financial protection functions, on the day before the 
                designated transfer date.
            (5) Federal trade commission.--


                    (A) Transfer of functions.--The authority of the 
                Federal Trade Commission under an enumerated consumer 
                law to prescribe rules, issue guidelines, or conduct a 
                study or issue a report mandated under such law shall be 
                transferred to the Bureau on the designated transfer 
                date. Nothing in this title shall be construed to 
                require a mandatory transfer of any employee of the 
                Federal Trade Commission.
                    (B) Bureau authority.--
                          (i) In general.--The Bureau shall have all 
                      powers and duties under the enumerated consumer 
                      laws to prescribe rules, issue guidelines, or to 
                      conduct studies or issue reports mandated by such 
                      laws, that were vested in the Federal Trade 
                      Commission on the day before the designated 
                      transfer date.
                          (ii) Federal trade commission act.--Subject to 
                      subtitle B, the Bureau may enforce a rule 
                      prescribed under the Federal Trade Commission Act 
                      by the Federal Trade Commission with respect to an 
                      unfair or deceptive act or practice to the extent 
                      that such rule applies to a covered person or 
                      service provider with respect to the offering or 
                      provision of a consumer financial product or 
                      service as if it were a rule prescribed under 
                      section 1031 of this title.
                    (C) Authority of the federal trade commission.--
                          (i) In general.--No provision of this title 
                      shall be construed as modifying, limiting, or 
                      otherwise affecting the authority of the Federal 
                      Trade Commission (including its authority with 
                      respect to affiliates described in section 
                      1025(a)(1)) under the Federal Trade Commission Act 
                      or any other law, other than the authority under 
                      an enumerated consumer law to prescribe rules, 
                      issue official guidelines, or conduct a study or 
                      issue a report mandated under such law.
                          (ii) Commission authority relating to rules 
                      prescribed by the bureau.--Subject to subtitle B, 
                      the Federal Trade Commission shall have authority 
                      to enforce under the Federal Trade Commission Act 
                      (15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.) a rule prescribed by the 
                      Bureau under this title with respect to a covered 
                      person subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal 
                      Trade Commission under that Act, and a violation 
                      of such a rule by such a person shall be treated 
                      as a violation of a rule issued under section 18 
                      of that Act (15 U.S.C. 57a) with respect to unfair 
                      or deceptive acts or practices.
                    (D) Coordination.--To avoid &lt;&lt;NOTE: Contracts.&gt;&gt;  
                duplication of or conflict between rules prescribed by 
                the Bureau under section 1031 of this title and the 
                Federal Trade Commission under section 18(a)(1)(B) of 
                the Federal Trade Commission Act that apply to a covered 
                person or service provider with respect to the offering 
                or provision of consumer financial products or services, 
                the agencies shall negotiate an agreement with respect 
                to rulemaking by each agency, including consultation 
                with the other agency prior to proposing a rule and 
                during the comment period.


                    (E) Deference.--No provision of this title shall be 
                construed as altering, limiting, expanding, or otherwise 
                affecting the deference that a court affords to the--
                          (i) Federal Trade Commission in making 
                      determinations regarding the meaning or 
                      interpretation of any provision of the Federal 
                      Trade Commission Act, or of any other Federal law 
                      for which the Commission has authority to 
                      prescribe rules; or
                          (ii) Bureau in making determinations regarding 
                      the meaning or interpretation of any provision of 
                      a Federal consumer financial law (other than any 
                      law described in clause (i)).
            (6) National credit union administration.--
                    (A) Transfer of functions.--All consumer financial 
                protection functions of the National Credit Union 
                Administration are transferred to the Bureau.
                    (B) National credit union administration 
                authority.--The Bureau shall have all powers and duties 
                that were vested in the National Credit Union 
                Administration, relating to consumer financial 
                protection functions, on the day before the designated 
                transfer date.
            (7) Department of housing and urban development.--
                    (A) Transfer of functions.--All consumer protection 
                functions of the Secretary of the Department of Housing 
                and Urban Development relating to the Real Estate 
                Settlement Procedures Act of 1974 (12 U.S.C. 2601 et 
                seq.), the Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage 
                Licensing Act of 2008 (12 U.S.C. 5102 et seq.), and the 
                Interstate Land Sales Full Disclosure Act (15 U.S.C. 
                1701 et seq.) are transferred to the Bureau.
                    (B) Authority of the department of housing and urban 
                development.--The Bureau shall have all powers and 
                duties that were vested in the Secretary of the 
                Department of Housing and Urban Development relating to 
                the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act of 1974 (12 
                U.S.C. 2601 et seq.), the Secure and Fair Enforcement 
                for Mortgage Licensing Act of 2008 (12 U.S.C. 5101 et 
                seq.), and the Interstate Land Sales Full Disclosure Act 
                (15 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), on the day before the 
                designated transfer date.

    (c) Authorities of the Prudential Regulators.--
            (1) Examination.--A transferor agency that is a prudential 
        regulator shall have--
                    (A) authority to require reports from and conduct 
                examinations for compliance with Federal consumer 
                financial laws with respect to a person described in 
                section 1025(a), that is incidental to the backup and 
                enforcement procedures provided to the regulator under 
                section 1025(c); and
                    (B) exclusive authority (relative to the Bureau) to 
                require reports from and conduct examinations for 
                compliance with Federal consumer financial laws with 
                respect to a person described in section 1026(a), except 
                as provided to the Bureau under subsections (b) and (c) 
                of section 1026.
            (2) Enforcement.--


                    (A) Limitation.--The authority of a transferor 
                agency that is a prudential regulator to enforce 
                compliance with Federal consumer financial laws with 
                respect to a person described in section 1025(a), shall 
                be limited to the backup and enforcement procedures in 
                described in section 1025(c).
                    (B) Exclusive authority.--A transferor agency that 
                is a prudential regulator shall have exclusive authority 
                (relative to the Bureau) to enforce compliance with 
                Federal consumer financial laws with respect to a person 
                described in section 1026(a), except as provided to the 
                Bureau under subsections (b) and (c) of section 1026.
                    (C) Statutory enforcement.--For purposes of carrying 
                out the authorities under, and subject to the 
                limitations of, subtitle B, each prudential regulator 
                may enforce compliance with the requirements imposed 
                under this title, and any rule or order prescribed by 
                the Bureau under this title, under--
                          (i) the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 
                      1751 et seq.), by the National Credit Union 
                      Administration Board with respect to any covered 
                      person or service provider that is an insured 
                      credit union, or service provider thereto, or any 
                      affiliate of an insured credit union, who is 
                      subject to the jurisdiction of the Board under 
                      that Act; and
                          (ii) section 8 of the Federal Deposit 
                      Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818), by the appropriate 
                      Federal banking agency, as defined in section 3(q) 
                      of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 
                      1813(q)), with respect to a covered person or 
                      service provider that is a person described in 
                      section 3(q) of that Act and who is subject to the 
                      jurisdiction of that agency, as set forth in 
                      sections 3(q) and 8 of the Federal Deposit 
                      Insurance Act; or
                          (iii) the Bank Service Company Act (12 U.S.C. 
                      1861 et seq.).

    (d) Effective Date.--Subsections (b) and (c) shall become effective 
on the designated transfer date.
