                            ABUSE PREVENTION ACT.

    (a) Amendments to Section 3.--Section 3 of the Telemarketing and 
Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act (15 U.S.C. 6102) is amended by 
striking subsections (b) and (c) and inserting the following:
    ``(b) Rulemaking Authority.--The Commission shall have authority to 
prescribe rules under subsection (a), in accordance with section 553 of 
title 5, United States &lt;&lt;NOTE: Consultation.&gt;&gt; Code. In prescribing a 
rule under this section that relates to the provision of a consumer 
financial product or service that is subject to the Consumer Financial 
Protection Act of 2010, including any enumerated consumer law 
thereunder, the Commission shall consult with the Bureau of Consumer 
Financial Protection regarding the consistency of a proposed rule with 
standards, purposes, or objectives administered by the Bureau of 
Consumer Financial Protection.

    ``(c) Violations.--Any violation of any rule prescribed under 
subsection (a)--
            ``(1) shall be treated as a violation of a rule under 
        section 18 of the Federal Trade Commission Act regarding unfair 
        or deceptive acts or practices; and


            ``(2) that is committed by a person subject to the Consumer 
        Financial Protection Act of 2010 shall be treated as a violation 
        of a rule under section 1031 of that Act regarding unfair, 
        deceptive, or abusive acts or practices.''.

    (b) Amendments to Section 4.--Section 4(d) of the Telemarketing and 
Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act (15 U.S.C. 6103(d)) is amended 
by inserting after ``Commission'' each place that term appears the 
following: ``or the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection''.
    (c) Amendments to Section 5.--Section 5(c) of the Telemarketing and 
Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act (15 U.S.C. 6104(c)) is amended 
by inserting after ``Commission'' each place that term appears the 
following: ``or the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection''.
    (d) Amendment to Section 6.--Section 6 of the Telemarketing and 
Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act (15 U.S.C. 6105) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Enforcement by Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection.--
Except as otherwise provided in sections 3(d), 3(e), 4, and 5, and 
subject to subtitle B of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010, 
this Act shall be enforced by the Bureau of Consumer Financial 
Protection under subtitle E of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 
2010, with respect to the offering or provision of a consumer financial 
product or service subject to that Act.''.
