                          REGULATION POLICY.

    (a) Establishment of the Position of Vice Chairman for 
Supervision.--
            (1) Position established.--The second undesignated paragraph 
        of section 10 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 242) 
        (relating to the Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Board) is 
        amended by striking the third sentence and inserting the 
        following: ``Of the persons thus appointed, 1 shall be 
        designated by the President, by and with the advice and consent 
        of the Senate, to serve as Chairman of the Board for a term of 4 
        years, and 2 shall be designated by the President, by and with 
        the advice and consent of the Senate, to serve as Vice Chairmen 
        of the Board, each for a term of 4 years, 1 of whom shall serve 
        in the absence of the Chairman, as provided in the fourth 
        undesignated paragraph of this section, and 1 of whom shall be 
        designated Vice Chairman for Supervision. The Vice Chairman for 
        Supervision shall develop policy recommendations for the Board 
        regarding supervision and regulation of depository institution 
        holding companies and other financial firms supervised by the 
        Board, and shall oversee the supervision and regulation of such 
        firms.''.
            (2) Effective &lt;&lt;NOTE: 12 USC 242 note.&gt;&gt; date.--The 
        amendment made by subsection (a) takes effect on the date of 
        enactment of this title and applies to individuals who are 
        designated by the President on or after that date to serve as 
        Vice Chairman of Supervision.

    (b) Appearances Before Congress.--Section 10 of the Federal Reserve 
Act (12 U.S.C. 241 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
            ``(12) Appearances &lt;&lt;NOTE: 12 USC 247b.&gt;&gt;  before 
        congress.--The Vice Chairman for Supervision shall appear before 
        the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the 
        Senate and the Committee on Financial Services of the House of 
        Representatives and at semi-annual hearings regarding the 
        efforts, activities, objectives, and plans of the Board with 
        respect to the conduct of supervision and regulation of 
        depository institution holding companies and other financial 
        firms supervised by the Board.''.

    (c) Board Responsibility To Set Supervision and Regulatory Policy.--
Section 11 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 248) (relating to 
enumerated powers of the Board) is amended by adding at the end of 
subsection (k) (relating to delegation)


the following: ``The Board of Governors may not delegate to a Federal 
reserve bank its functions for the establishment of policies for the 
supervision and regulation of depository institution holding companies 
and other financial firms supervised by the Board of Governors.''.
    (d) Exercise &lt;&lt;NOTE: 12 USC 5614.&gt;&gt; of Federal Reserve Authority.--
            (1) No decisions by federal reserve bank presidents.--No 
        provision of title I relating to the authority of the Board of 
        Governors shall be construed as conferring any decision-making 
        authority on presidents of Federal reserve banks.
            (2) Voting decisions by board.--The Board of Governors shall 
        not delegate the authority to make any voting decision that the 
        Board of Governors is authorized or required to make under title 
        I of this Act in contravention of section 11(k) of the Federal 
        Reserve Act.
