                          APPRAISER INDEPENDENCE MONITORING, 
                          APPROVED APPRAISER EDUCATION, APPRAISAL 
                          MANAGEMENT COMPANIES, APPRAISER 
                          COMPLAINT HOTLINE, AUTOMATED VALUATION 
                          MODELS, AND BROKER PRICE OPINIONS.

    (a) Threshold Levels.--Section 1112(b) of the Financial Institutions 
Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 U.S.C. 3341(b)) is 
amended by inserting before the period the following: ``, and receives 
concurrence from the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection that such 
threshold level provides reasonable protection for consumers who 
purchase 1-4 unit single-family residences''.
    (b) Annual Report of Appraisal Subcommittee.--Section 1103(a) of the 
Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 
U.S.C. 3332(a)) is amended at the end by inserting the following new 
paragraph:
            ``(5) transmit an annual report to the Congress not later 
        than June 15 of each year that describes the manner in which 
        each function assigned to the Appraisal Subcommittee has been 
        carried out during the preceding year. The report shall also 
        detail the activities of the Appraisal Subcommittee, including 
        the results of all audits of State appraiser regulatory 
        agencies, and provide an accounting of disapproved actions and 
        warnings taken in the previous year, including a description of 
        the conditions causing the disapproval and actions taken to 
        achieve compliance.''.


    (c) Open Meetings.--Section 1104(b) of the Financial Institutions 
Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 U.S.C. 3333(b)) is 
amended--
            (1) by inserting ``in public session after notice in the 
        Federal Register, but may close certain portions of these 
        meetings related to personnel and review of preliminary State 
        audit reports,'' after ``shall meet''; and
            (2) by adding after the final period the following: ``The 
        subject matter discussed in any closed or executive session 
        shall be described in the Federal Register notice of the 
        meeting.''.

    (d) Regulations.--Section 1106 of the Financial Institutions Reform, 
Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 U.S.C. 3335) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``prescribe regulations in accordance with 
        chapter 5 of title 5, United States Code (commonly referred to 
        as the Administrative Procedures Act) after notice and 
        opportunity for comment,'' after ``hold hearings''; and
            (2) at the end by inserting ``Any regulations prescribed by 
        the Appraisal Subcommittee shall (unless otherwise provided in 
        this title) be limited to the following functions: temporary 
        practice, national registry, information sharing, and 
        enforcement. &lt;&lt;NOTE: Establishment.&gt;&gt;  For purposes of 
        prescribing regulations, the Appraisal Subcommittee shall 
        establish an advisory committee of industry participants, 
        including appraisers, lenders, consumer advocates, real estate 
        agents, and government agencies, and hold meetings as necessary 
        to support the development of regulations.''.

    (e) Appraisal Reviews and Complex Appraisals.--
            (1) Section 1110.--Section 1110 of the Financial 
        Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 
        U.S.C. 3339) is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:
            ``(3) that such appraisals shall be subject to appropriate 
        review for compliance with the Uniform Standards of Professional 
        Appraisal Practice.''.
            (2) Section 1113.--Section 1113 of the Financial 
        Institutions and Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 
        (12 U.S.C. 3342) is amended by inserting before the period the 
        following: &lt;&lt;NOTE: Definition.&gt;&gt;  ``, where a complex 1-to-4 
        unit single family residential appraisal means an appraisal for 
        which the property to be appraised, the form of ownership, the 
        property characteristics, or the market conditions are 
        atypical''.

    (f) Appraisal Management Services.--
            (1) Supervision of third party providers of appraisal 
        management services.--Section 1103(a) of the Financial 
        Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 
        U.S.C. 3332(a)) (as previously amended by this section) is 
        amended--
                    (A) by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:
            ``(1) monitor the requirements established by States--
                    ``(A) for the certification and licensing of 
                individuals who are qualified to perform appraisals in 
                connection with federally related transactions, 
                including a code of professional responsibility; and


                    ``(B) for the registration and supervision of the 
                operations and activities of an appraisal management 
                company;''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(6) maintain a national registry of appraisal management 
        companies that either are registered with and subject to 
        supervision of a State appraiser certifying and licensing agency 
        or are operating subsidiaries of a Federally regulated financial 
        institution.''.
            (2) Appraisal management company minimum requirements.--
        Title XI of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and 
        Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 U.S.C. 3331 et seq.) is amended by 
        adding at the end the following new section (and amending the 
        table of contents accordingly):
``SEC. 1124. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 12 USC 3353.&gt;&gt; APPRAISAL MANAGEMENT COMPANY 
                          MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.

    ``(a) In General.-- 
&lt;&lt;NOTE: Regulations. Applicability. States.&gt;&gt; The Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit Union Administration 
Board, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, and the Bureau of Consumer 
Financial Protection shall jointly, by rule, establish minimum 
requirements to be applied by a State in the registration of appraisal 
management companies. Such requirements shall include a requirement that 
such companies--
            ``(1) register with and be subject to supervision by a State 
        appraiser certifying and licensing agency in each State in which 
        such company operates;
            ``(2) verify that only licensed or certified appraisers are 
        used for federally related transactions;
            ``(3) require that appraisals coordinated by an appraisal 
        management company comply with the Uniform Standards of 
        Professional Appraisal Practice; and
            ``(4) require that appraisals are conducted independently 
        and free from inappropriate influence and coercion pursuant to 
        the appraisal independence standards established under section 
        129E of the Truth in Lending Act.

    ``(b) Relation to State Law.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to prevent States from establishing requirements in addition 
to any rules promulgated under subsection (a).
    ``(c) Federally Regulated Financial Institutions.-- 
&lt;&lt;NOTE: Applicability.&gt;&gt; The requirements of subsection (a) shall apply 
to an appraisal management company that is a subsidiary owned and 
controlled by a financial institution and regulated by a Federal 
financial institution regulatory agency. An appraisal management company 
that is a subsidiary owned and controlled by a financial institution 
regulated by a Federal financial institution regulatory agency shall not 
be required to register with a State.

    ``(d) Registration Limitations.--An appraisal management company 
shall not be registered by a State or included on the national registry 
if such company, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, is owned 
by any person who has had an appraiser license or certificate refused, 
denied, cancelled, surrendered in lieu of revocation, or revoked in any 
State. &lt;&lt;NOTE: Investigation.&gt;&gt;  Additionally, each person that owns 
more than 10 percent of an appraisal management company shall be of good 
moral character, as determined by the State appraiser certifying and 
licensing agency, and shall submit to a


background investigation carried out by the State appraiser certifying 
and licensing agency.

    ``(e) Reporting.-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Regulations.&gt;&gt; The Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit Union Administration 
Board, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, and the Bureau of Consumer 
Financial Protection shall jointly promulgate regulations for the 
reporting of the activities of appraisal management companies to the 
Appraisal Subcommittee in determining the payment of the annual registry 
fee.

    ``(f) Effective Date.--
            ``(1) In general.--No appraisal management company may 
        perform services related to a federally related transaction in a 
        State after the date that is 36 months after the date on which 
        the regulations required to be prescribed under subsection (a) 
        are prescribed in final form unless such company is registered 
        with such State or subject to oversight by a Federal financial 
        institutions regulatory agency.
            ``(2) Extension of effective date.--Subject to the approval 
        of the Council, the Appraisal Subcommittee may extend by an 
        additional 12 months the requirements for the registration and 
        supervision of appraisal management companies if it makes a 
        written finding that a State has made substantial progress in 
        establishing a State appraisal management company registration 
        and supervision system that appears to conform with the 
        provisions of this title.''.
            (3) State appraiser certifying and licensing agency 
        authority.--Section 1117 of the Financial Institutions Reform, 
        Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 U.S.C. 3346) is 
        amended by adding at the end the following: ``The duties of such 
        agency may additionally include the registration and supervision 
        of appraisal management companies and the addition of 
        information about the appraisal management company to the 
        national registry.''.
            (4) Appraisal management company definition.--Section 1121 
        of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement 
        Act of 1989 (12 U.S.C. 3350) is amended by adding at the end the 
        following:
            ``(11) Appraisal management company.--The term `appraisal 
        management company' means, in connection with valuing properties 
        collateralizing mortgage loans or mortgages incorporated into a 
        securitization, any external third party authorized either by a 
        creditor of a consumer credit transaction secured by a 
        consumer's principal dwelling or by an underwriter of or other 
        principal in the secondary mortgage markets, that oversees a 
        network or panel of more than 15 certified or licensed 
        appraisers in a State or 25 or more nationally within a given 
        year--
                    ``(A) to recruit, select, and retain appraisers;
                    ``(B) to contract with licensed and certified 
                appraisers to perform appraisal assignments;
                    ``(C) to manage the process of having an appraisal 
                performed, including providing administrative duties 
                such as receiving appraisal orders and appraisal 
                reports, submitting completed appraisal reports to 
                creditors and underwriters, collecting fees from 
                creditors and underwriters for


                services provided, and reimbursing appraisers for 
                services performed; or
                    ``(D) to review and verify the work of 
                appraisers.''.

    (g) State Agency Reporting Requirement.--Section 1109(a) of the 
Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 
U.S.C. 3338(a)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' after the semicolon in paragraph 
        (1);
            (2) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (4); and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
        paragraphs:
            ``(2) transmit reports on the issuance and renewal of 
        licenses and certifications, sanctions, disciplinary actions, 
        license and certification revocations, and license and 
        certification suspensions on a timely basis to the national 
        registry of the Appraisal Subcommittee;
            ``(3) transmit reports on a timely basis of supervisory 
        activities involving appraisal management companies or other 
        third-party providers of appraisals and appraisal management 
        services, including investigations initiated and disciplinary 
        actions taken; and''.

    (h) Registry Fees Modified.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1109(a) of the Financial 
        Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 
        U.S.C. 3338(a)) is amended--
                    (A) by amending paragraph (4) (as modified by 
                section 1473(g)) to read as follows:
            ``(4) collect--
                    ``(A) from such individuals who perform or seek to 
                perform appraisals in federally related transactions, an 
                annual registry fee of not more than $40, such fees to 
                be transmitted by the State agencies to the Council on 
                an annual basis; and
                    ``(B) from an appraisal management company that 
                either has registered with a State appraiser certifying 
                and licensing agency in accordance with this title or 
                operates as a subsidiary of a federally regulated 
                financial institution, an annual registry fee of--
                          ``(i) in the case of such a company that has 
                      been in existence for more than a year, $25 
                      multiplied by the number of appraisers working for 
                      or contracting with such company in such State 
                      during the previous year, but where such $25 
                      amount may be adjusted, up to a maximum of $50, at 
                      the discretion of the Appraisal Subcommittee, if 
                      necessary to carry out the Subcommittee's 
                      functions under this title; and
                          ``(ii) in the case of such a company that has 
                      not been in existence for more than a year, $25 
                      multiplied by an appropriate number to be 
                      determined by the Appraisal Subcommittee, and 
                      where such number will be used for determining the 
                      fee of all such companies that were not in 
                      existence for more than a year, but where such $25 
                      amount may be adjusted, up to a maximum of $50, at 
                      the discretion of the Appraisal Subcommittee, if 
                      necessary to carry out the Subcommittee's 
                      functions under this title.''; and


                    (B) by amending the matter following paragraph (4), 
                as redesignated, to read as follows:

``Subject to the approval of the Council, the Appraisal Subcommittee may 
adjust the dollar amount of registry fees under paragraph (4)(A), up to 
a maximum of $80 per annum, as necessary to carry out its functions 
under this title. &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt;  The Appraisal Subcommittee shall 
consider at least once every 5 years whether to adjust the dollar amount 
of the registry fees to account for inflation. In implementing any 
change in registry fees, the Appraisal Subcommittee shall provide 
flexibility to the States for multi-year certifications and licenses 
already in place, as well as a transition period to implement the 
changes in registry fees. In establishing the amount of the annual 
registry fee for an appraisal management company, the Appraisal 
Subcommittee shall have the discretion to impose a minimum annual 
registry fee for an appraisal management company to protect against the 
under reporting of the number of appraisers working for or contracted by 
the appraisal management company.''.
            (2) Incremental revenues.--Incremental revenues collected 
        pursuant to the increases required by this subsection shall be 
        placed in a separate account at the United States Treasury, 
        entitled the ``Appraisal Subcommittee Account''.

    (i) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 12 USC 3338 note.&gt;&gt;  Grants and Reports.--Section 
1109(b) of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement 
Act of 1989 (12 U.S.C. 3338(b)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' after the semicolon in paragraph 
        (3);
            (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (4) and 
        inserting a semicolon;
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
            ``(5) to make grants to State appraiser certifying and 
        licensing agencies, in accordance with policies to be developed 
        by the Appraisal Subcommittee, to support the efforts of such 
        agencies to comply with this title, including--
                    ``(A) the complaint process, complaint 
                investigations, and appraiser enforcement activities of 
                such agencies; and
                    ``(B) the submission of data on State licensed and 
                certified appraisers and appraisal management companies 
                to the National appraisal registry, including 
                information affirming that the appraiser or appraisal 
                management company meets the required qualification 
                criteria and formal and informal disciplinary actions; 
                and
            ``(6) to report to all State appraiser certifying and 
        licensing agencies when a license or certification is 
        surrendered, revoked, or suspended.''.

Obligations authorized under this subsection may not exceed 75 percent 
of the fiscal year total of incremental increase in fees collected and 
deposited in the ``Appraisal Subcommittee Account'' pursuant to 
subsection (h).
    (j) Criteria.--Section 1116 of the Financial Institutions Reform, 
Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 U.S.C. 3345) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c), by inserting ``whose criteria for the 
        licensing of a real estate appraiser currently meet or exceed 
        the minimum criteria issued by the Appraisal Qualifications 
        Board of The Appraisal Foundation for the licensing of real 
        estate appraisers'' before the period at the end; and


            (2) by striking subsection (e) and inserting the following 
        new subsection:

    ``(e) Minimum Qualification Requirements.--Any requirements 
established for individuals in the position of `Trainee Appraiser' and 
`Supervisory Appraiser' shall meet or exceed the minimum qualification 
requirements of the Appraiser Qualifications Board of The Appraisal 
Foundation. The Appraisal Subcommittee shall have the authority to 
enforce these requirements.''.
    (k) Monitoring of State Appraiser Certifying and Licensing 
Agencies.--Section 1118 of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, 
and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 U.S.C. 3347) is amended--
            (1) by amending subsection (a) to read as follows:

    ``(a) In General.--The Appraisal Subcommittee shall monitor each 
State appraiser certifying and licensing agency for the purposes of 
determining whether such agency--
            ``(1) has policies, practices, funding, staffing, and 
        procedures that are consistent with this title;
            ``(2) processes complaints and completes investigations in a 
        reasonable time period;
            ``(3) appropriately disciplines sanctioned appraisers and 
        appraisal management companies;
            ``(4) maintains an effective regulatory program; and
            ``(5) reports complaints and disciplinary actions on a 
        timely basis to the national registries on appraisers and 
        appraisal management companies maintained by the Appraisal 
        Subcommittee.

The Appraisal Subcommittee shall have the authority to remove a State 
licensed or certified appraiser or a registered appraisal management 
company from a national registry on an interim basis, not to exceed 90 
days, pending State agency action on licensing, certification, 
registration, and disciplinary proceedings. The Appraisal Subcommittee 
and all agencies, instrumentalities, and Federally recognized entities 
under this title shall not recognize appraiser certifications and 
licenses from States whose appraisal policies, practices, funding, 
staffing, or procedures are found to be inconsistent with this title. 
The Appraisal Subcommittee shall have the authority to impose sanctions, 
as described in this section, against a State agency that fails to have 
an effective appraiser regulatory program. In determining whether such a 
program is effective, the Appraisal Subcommittee shall include an 
analysis of the licensing and certification of appraisers, the 
registration of appraisal management companies, the issuance of 
temporary licenses and certifications for appraisers, the receiving and 
tracking of submitted complaints against appraisers and appraisal 
management companies, the investigation of complaints, and enforcement 
actions against appraisers and appraisal management companies. The 
Appraisal Subcommittee shall have the authority to impose interim 
actions and suspensions against a State agency as an alternative to, or 
in advance of, the derecognition of a State agency.''.
            (2) in subsection (b)(2), by inserting after ``authority'' 
        the following: ``or sufficient funding''.

    (l) Reciprocity.--Subsection (b) of section 1122 of the Financial 
Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 U.S.C. 
3351(b)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(b) Reciprocity.--Notwithstanding any other provisions of this 
title, a federally related transaction shall not be appraised


by a certified or licensed appraiser unless the State appraiser 
certifying or licensing agency of the State certifying or licensing such 
appraiser has in place a policy of issuing a reciprocal certification or 
license for an individual from another State when--
            ``(1) the appraiser licensing and certification program of 
        such other State is in compliance with the provisions of this 
        title; and
            ``(2) the appraiser holds a valid certification from a State 
        whose requirements for certification or licensing meet or exceed 
        the licensure standards established by the State where an 
        individual seeks appraisal licensure.''.

    (m) Consideration of Professional Appraisal Designations.--Section 
1122(d) of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement 
Act of 1989 (12 U.S.C. 3351(d)) is amended by striking ``shall not 
exclude'' and all that follows through the end of the subsection and 
inserting the following: ``may include education achieved, experience, 
sample appraisals, and references from prior clients. Membership in a 
nationally recognized professional appraisal organization may be a 
criteria considered, though lack of membership therein shall not be the 
sole bar against consideration for an assignment under these 
criteria.''.
    (n) Appraiser Independence.--Section 1122 of the Financial 
Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 U.S.C. 
3351) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(g) Appraiser Independence Monitoring.--The Appraisal Subcommittee 
shall monitor each State appraiser certifying and licensing agency for 
the purpose of determining whether such agency's policies, practices, 
and procedures are consistent with the purposes of maintaining appraiser 
independence and whether such State has adopted and maintains effective 
laws, regulations, and policies aimed at maintaining appraiser 
independence.''.
    (o) Appraiser Education.--Section 1122 of the Financial Institutions 
Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 U.S.C. 3351) is 
amended by inserting after subsection (g) (as added by subsection (l) of 
this section) the following new subsection:
    ``(h) Approved Education.--The Appraisal Subcommittee shall 
encourage the States to accept courses approved by the Appraiser 
Qualification Board's Course Approval Program.''.
    (p) Appraisal Complaint Hotline.--Section 1122 of the Financial 
Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 U.S.C. 
3351), as amended by this section, is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(i) Appraisal Complaint National Hotline.-- 
&lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline. Determination.&gt;&gt; If, 6 months after the date of the 
enactment of this subsection, the Appraisal Subcommittee determines that 
no national hotline exists to receive complaints of non-compliance with 
appraisal independence standards and Uniform Standards of Professional 
Appraisal Practice, including complaints from appraisers, individuals, 
or other entities concerning the improper influencing or attempted 
improper influencing of appraisers or the appraisal process, the 
Appraisal Subcommittee shall establish and operate such a national 
hotline, which shall include a toll-free telephone number and an email 
address. If the Appraisal Subcommittee operates such a national hotline, 
the Appraisal Subcommittee shall refer complaints for further action to 
appropriate governmental bodies, including a State appraiser certifying 
and licensing agency, a financial institution regulator,


or other appropriate legal authorities. For complaints referred to State 
appraiser certifying and licensing agencies or to Federal regulators, 
the Appraisal Subcommittee shall have the authority to follow up such 
complaint referrals in order to determine the status of the resolution 
of the complaint.''.

    (q) Automated Valuation Models.--Title XI of the Financial 
Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 U.S.C. 
3331 et seq.), as amended by this section, is amended by adding at the 
end the following new section (and amending the table of contents 
accordingly):
``SEC. 1125. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 12 USC 3354.&gt;&gt; AUTOMATED VALUATION MODELS 
                          USED TO ESTIMATE COLLATERAL VALUE FOR 
                          MORTGAGE LENDING PURPOSES.

    ``(a) In General.--Automated valuation models shall adhere to 
quality control standards designed to--
            ``(1) ensure a high level of confidence in the estimates 
        produced by automated valuation models;
            ``(2) protect against the manipulation of data;
            ``(3) seek to avoid conflicts of interest;
            ``(4) require random sample testing and reviews; and
            ``(5) account for any other such factor that the agencies 
        listed in subsection (b) determine to be appropriate.

    ``(b) Adoption of Regulations.--The Board, the Comptroller of the 
Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit 
Union Administration Board, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, and the 
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, in consultation with the staff 
of the Appraisal Subcommittee and the Appraisal Standards Board of the 
Appraisal Foundation, shall promulgate regulations to implement the 
quality control standards required under this section.
    ``(c) Enforcement.--Compliance with regulations issued under this 
subsection shall be enforced by--
            ``(1) with respect to a financial institution, or subsidiary 
        owned and controlled by a financial institution and regulated by 
        a Federal financial institution regulatory agency, the Federal 
        financial institution regulatory agency that acts as the primary 
        Federal supervisor of such financial institution or subsidiary; 
        and
            ``(2) with respect to other participants in the market for 
        appraisals of 1-to-4 unit single family residential real estate, 
        the Federal Trade Commission, the Bureau of Consumer Financial 
        Protection, and a State attorney general.

    ``(d) Automated Valuation Model Defined.--For purposes of this 
section, the term `automated valuation model' means any computerized 
model used by mortgage originators and secondary market issuers to 
determine the collateral worth of a mortgage secured by a consumer's 
principal dwelling.''.
    (r) Broker Price Opinions.--Title XI of the Financial Institutions 
Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 U.S.C. 3331 et seq.), 
as amended by this section, is amended by adding at the end the 
following new section (and amending the table of contents accordingly):
``SEC. 1126. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 12 USC 3355.&gt;&gt; BROKER PRICE OPINIONS.

    ``(a) General Prohibition.--In conjunction with the purchase of a 
consumer's principal dwelling, broker price opinions may not be used as 
the primary basis to determine the value of a piece


of property for the purpose of a loan origination of a residential 
mortgage loan secured by such piece of property.
    ``(b) Broker Price Opinion Defined.--For purposes of this section, 
the term `broker price opinion' means an estimate prepared by a real 
estate broker, agent, or sales person that details the probable selling 
price of a particular piece of real estate property and provides a 
varying level of detail about the property's condition, market, and 
neighborhood, and information on comparable sales, but does not include 
an automated valuation model, as defined in section 1125(c).''.
    (s) Amendments to Appraisal Subcommittee.--Section 1011 of the 
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council Act of 1978 (12 
U.S.C. 3310) is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence, by adding before the period the 
        following: ``, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, and 
        the Federal Housing Finance Agency''; and
            (2) by inserting at the end the following: ``At all times at 
        least one member of the Appraisal Subcommittee shall have 
        demonstrated knowledge and competence through licensure, 
        certification, or professional designation within the appraisal 
        profession.''.

    (t) Technical Corrections.--
            (1) Section 1119(a)(2) of the Financial Institutions Reform, 
        Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 U.S.C. 3348(a)(2)) is 
        amended by striking ``council,'' and inserting ``Council,''.
            (2) Section 1121(6) of the Financial Institutions Reform, 
        Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 U.S.C. 3350(6)) is 
        amended by striking ``Corporations,'' and inserting 
        ``Corporation,''.
            (3) Section 1121(8) of the Financial Institutions Reform, 
        Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 U.S.C. 3350(8)) is 
        amended by striking ``council'' and inserting ``Council''.
            (4) Section 1122 of the Financial Institutions Reform, 
        Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 U.S.C. 3351) is 
        amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(1) by moving the left margin 
                of subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) 2 ems to the right; 
                and
                    (B) in subsection (c)--
                          (i) by striking ``Federal Financial 
                      Institutions Examination Council'' and inserting 
                      ``Financial Institutions Examination Council''; 
                      and
                          (ii) by striking ``the council's functions'' 
                      and inserting ``the Council's functions''.
