                          APPRAISAL METHODS, VALUATION MODELS AND 
                          DISTRIBUTIONS CHANNELS, AND ON THE HOME 
                          VALUATION CODE OF CONDUCT AND THE 
                          APPRAISAL SUBCOMMITTEE.

    (a) In General.--The Government Accountability Office shall conduct 
a study on--
            (1) the effectiveness and impact of--
                    (A) appraisal methods, including the cost approach, 
                the comparative sales approach, the income approach, and 
                others that may be available;
                    (B) appraisal valuation models, including licensed 
                and certified appraisals, broker-priced opinions, and 
                automated valuation models; and
                    (C) appraisal distribution channels, including 
                appraisal management companies, independent appraisal 
                operations within mortgage originators, and fee-for-
                service appraisers;
            (2) the Home Valuation Code of Conduct; and
            (3) the Appraisal Subcommittee's functions pursuant to title 
        XI of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and 
        Enforcement Act of 1989.

    (b) Study.--Not later than--
            (1) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; 12 months after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Government Accountability Office 
        shall submit a study


        to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the 
        Senate and the Committee on Financial Services of the House of 
        Representatives; and
            (2) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline. Reports.&gt;&gt; 90 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Government Accountability Office 
        shall provide a report on the status of the study and any 
        preliminary findings to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
        Urban Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Financial 
        Services of the House of Representatives.

    (c) Content of Study.--The study required by this section shall 
include an examination of the following:
            (1) Appraisal approaches, valuation models, and distribution 
        channels.--
                    (A) The prevalence, alone or in combination, of 
                certain appraisal approaches, models, and channels in 
                purchase-money and refinance mortgage transactions.
                    (B) The accuracy of these approaches, models, and 
                channels in assessing the property as collateral.
                    (C) Whether and how these approaches, models, and 
                channels contributed to price speculation during the 
                previous cycle.
                    (D) The costs to consumers of these approaches, 
                models, and channels.
                    (E) The disclosure of fees to consumers in the 
                appraisal process.
                    (F) To what extent the usage of these approaches, 
                models, and channels may be influenced by a conflict of 
                interest between the mortgage lender and the appraiser 
                and the mechanism by which the lender selects and 
                compensates the appraiser.
                    (G) The suitability of these approaches, models, and 
                channels in rural versus urban areas.
            (2) Home valuation code of conduct (hvcc).--
                    (A) How the HVCC affects mortgage lenders' selection 
                of appraisers.
                    (B) How the HVCC affects State regulation of 
                appraisers and appraisal distribution channels.
                    (C) How the HVCC affects the quality and cost of 
                appraisals and the length of time to obtain an 
                appraisal.
                    (D) How the HVCC affects mortgage brokers, small 
                businesses, and consumers.

    (d) Additional Study Required.--
            (1) In general.-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; Not later than 18 
        months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Government 
        Accountability Office shall submit a study to the Committee on 
        Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives.
            (2) Content of additional study.--The study required under 
        paragraph (1) shall include--
                    (A) an examination of--
                          (i) the Appraisal Subcommittee's ability to 
                      monitor and enforce State and Federal 
                      certification requirements and standards, 
                      including by providing a summary with a 
                      statistical breakdown of enforcement actions taken 
                      during the last 10 years;


                          (ii) whether existing Federal financial 
                      institutions regulatory agency exemptions on 
                      appraisals for federally related transactions 
                      needs to be revised; and
                          (iii) whether new means of data collection, 
                      such as the establishment of a national 
                      repository, would benefit the Appraisal 
                      Subcommittee's ability to perform its functions; 
                      and
                    (B) recommendations from this examination for 
                administrative and legislative action at the Federal and 
                State level.

            Subtitle G--Mortgage Resolution and Modification

