                        ESTABLISHED.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established within the Department of 
the Treasury the Office of Financial Research.
    (b) Director.--
            (1) In general.--
        The &lt;&lt;NOTE: President. Appointment.&gt;&gt; Office shall be headed by 
        a Director, who shall be appointed by the President, by and with 
        the advice and consent of the Senate.
            (2) Term of service.--The Director shall serve for a term of 
        6 years, except that, in the event that a successor is not 
        nominated and confirmed by the end of the term of service of a 
        Director, the Director may continue to serve until such time as 
        the next Director is appointed and confirmed.
            (3) Executive level.--The Director shall be compensated at 
        Level III of the Executive Schedule.
            (4) Prohibition on dual service.--The individual serving in 
        the position of Director may not, during such service, also 
        serve as the head of any financial regulatory agency.
            (5) Responsibilities, duties, and authority.--The Director 
        shall have sole discretion in the manner in which the Director 
        fulfills the responsibilities and duties and exercises the 
        authorities described in this subtitle.

    (c) Budget.--The Director, in consultation with the Chairperson, 
shall establish the annual budget of the Office.
    (d) Office Personnel.--
            (1) In general.--The Director, in consultation with the 
        Chairperson, may fix the number of, and appoint and direct, all 
        employees of the Office.
            (2) Compensation.--The Director, in consultation with the 
        Chairperson, shall fix, adjust, and administer the pay for all 
        employees of the Office, without regard to chapter 51 or 
        subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code, 
        relating to classification of positions and General Schedule pay 
        rates.


            (3) Comparability.--Section 1206(a) of the Financial 
        Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 
        U.S.C. 1833b(a)) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``Finance Board,'' and inserting 
                ``Finance Board, the Office of Financial Research, and 
                the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection''; and
                    (B) by striking ``and the Office of Thrift 
                Supervision,''.
            (4) Senior executives.--Section 3132(a)(1)(D) of title 5, 
        United States Code, is amended by striking ``and the National 
        Credit Union Administration;'' and inserting ``the National 
        Credit Union Administration, the Bureau of Consumer Financial 
        Protection, and the Office of Financial Research;''.

    (e) Assistance From Federal Agencies.--Any department or agency of 
the United States may provide to the Office and any special advisory, 
technical, or professional committees appointed by the Office, such 
services, funds, facilities, staff, and other support services as the 
Office may determine advisable. Any Federal Government employee may be 
detailed to the Office without reimbursement, and such detail shall be 
without interruption or loss of civil service status or privilege.
    (f) Procurement of Temporary and Intermittent Services.--The 
Director may procure temporary and intermittent services under section 
3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, at rates for individuals which 
do not exceed the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay 
prescribed for Level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of 
such title.
    (g) Post-employment Prohibitions.--
The &lt;&lt;NOTE: Regulations.&gt;&gt; Secretary, with the concurrence of the 
Director of the Office of Government Ethics, shall issue regulations 
prohibiting the Director and any employee of the Office who has had 
access to the transaction or position data maintained by the Data Center 
or other business confidential information about financial entities 
required to report to the Office from being employed by or providing 
advice or consulting services to a financial company, for a period of 1 
year after last having had access in the course of official duties to 
such transaction or position data or business confidential information, 
regardless of whether that entity is required to report to the Office. 
For employees whose access to business confidential information was 
limited, the regulations may provide, on a case-by-case basis, for a 
shorter period of post-employment prohibition, provided that the shorter 
period does not compromise business confidential information.

    (h) Technical and Professional Advisory Committees.--The Office, in 
consultation with the Chairperson, may appoint such special advisory, 
technical, or professional committees as may be useful in carrying out 
the functions of the Office, and the members of such committees may be 
staff of the Office, or other persons, or both.
    (i) Fellowship Program.--The Office, in consultation with the 
Chairperson, may establish and maintain an academic and professional 
fellowship program, under which qualified academics and professionals 
shall be invited to spend not longer than 2 years at the Office, to 
perform research and to provide advanced training for Office personnel.
    (j) Executive Schedule Compensation.--Section 5314 of title 5, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
item:
            ``Director of the Office of Financial Research.''.


