
    (a) In General.--In this title, the following definitions shall 
apply:
            (1) Administrative expenses of the receiver.--The term 
        ``administrative expenses of the receiver'' includes--
                    (A) the actual, necessary costs and expenses 
                incurred by the Corporation as receiver for a covered 
                financial company in liquidating a covered financial 
                company; and
                    (B) any obligations that the Corporation as receiver 
                for a covered financial company determines are necessary 
                and appropriate to facilitate the smooth and orderly 
                liquidation of the covered financial company.
            (2) Bankruptcy code.--The term ``Bankruptcy Code'' means 
        title 11, United States Code.
            (3) Bridge financial company.--The term ``bridge financial 
        company'' means a new financial company organized by


        the Corporation in accordance with section 210(h) for the 
        purpose of resolving a covered financial company.
            (4) Claim.--The term ``claim'' means any right to payment, 
        whether or not such right is reduced to judgment, liquidated, 
        unliquidated, fixed, contingent, matured, unmatured, disputed, 
        undisputed, legal, equitable, secured, or unsecured.
            (5) Company.--The term ``company'' has the same meaning as 
        in section 2(b) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 
        U.S.C. 1841(b)), except that such term includes any company 
        described in paragraph (11), the majority of the securities of 
        which are owned by the United States or any State.
            (6) Court.--The term ``Court'' means the United States 
        District Court for the District of Columbia, unless the context 
        otherwise requires.
            (7) Covered broker or dealer.--The term ``covered broker or 
        dealer'' means a covered financial company that is a broker or 
        dealer that--
                    (A) is registered with the Commission under section 
                15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 
                78o(b)); and
                    (B) is a member of SIPC.
            (8) Covered financial company.--The term ``covered financial 
        company''--
                    (A) means a financial company for which a 
                determination has been made under section 203(b); and
                    (B) does not include an insured depository 
                institution.
            (9) Covered subsidiary.--The term ``covered subsidiary'' 
        means a subsidiary of a covered financial company, other than--
                    (A) an insured depository institution;
                    (B) an insurance company; or
                    (C) a covered broker or dealer.
            (10) Definitions relating to covered brokers and dealers.--
        The terms ``customer'', ``customer name securities'', ``customer 
        property'', and ``net equity'' in the context of a covered 
        broker or dealer, have the same meanings as in section 16 of the 
        Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 (15 U.S.C. 78lll).
            (11) Financial company.--The term ``financial company'' 
        means any company that--
                    (A) is incorporated or organized under any provision 
                of Federal law or the laws of any State;
                    (B) is--
                          (i) a bank holding company, as defined in 
                      section 2(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 
                      1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841(a));
                          (ii) a nonbank financial company supervised by 
                      the Board of Governors;
                          (iii) any company that is predominantly 
                      engaged in activities that the Board of Governors 
                      has determined are financial in nature or 
                      incidental thereto for purposes of section 4(k) of 
                      the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
                      1843(k)) other than a company described in clause 
                      (i) or (ii); or
                          (iv) any subsidiary of any company described 
                      in any of clauses (i) through (iii) that is 
                      predominantly engaged in activities that the Board 
                      of Governors has


                      determined are financial in nature or incidental 
                      thereto for purposes of section 4(k) of the Bank 
                      Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1843(k)) 
                      (other than a subsidiary that is an insured 
                      depository institution or an insurance company); 
                      and
                    (C) is not a Farm Credit System institution 
                chartered under and subject to the provisions of the 
                Farm Credit Act of 1971, as amended (12 U.S.C. 2001 et 
                seq.), a governmental entity, or a regulated entity, as 
                defined under section 1303(20) of the Federal Housing 
                Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992 
                (12 U.S.C. 4502(20)).
            (12) Fund.--The term ``Fund'' means the Orderly Liquidation 
        Fund established under section 210(n).
            (13) Insurance company.--The term ``insurance company'' 
        means any entity that is--
                    (A) engaged in the business of insurance;
                    (B) subject to regulation by a State insurance 
                regulator; and
                    (C) covered by a State law that is designed to 
                specifically deal with the rehabilitation, liquidation, 
                or insolvency of an insurance company.
            (14) Nonbank financial company.--The term ``nonbank 
        financial company'' has the same meaning as in section 
        102(a)(4)(C).
            (15) Nonbank financial company supervised by the board of 
        governors.--The term ``nonbank financial company supervised by 
        the Board of Governors'' has the same meaning as in section 
        102(a)(4)(D).
            (16) SIPC.--The term ``SIPC'' means the Securities Investor 
        Protection Corporation.

    (b) Definitional &lt;&lt;NOTE: Regulations.&gt;&gt; Criteria.--For purpose of 
the definition of the term ``financial company'' under subsection 
(a)(11), no company shall be deemed to be predominantly engaged in 
activities that the Board of Governors has determined are financial in 
nature or incidental thereto for purposes of section 4(k) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1843(k)), if the consolidated 
revenues of such company from such activities constitute less than 85 
percent of the total consolidated revenues of such company, as the 
Corporation, in consultation with the Secretary, shall establish by 
regulation. In determining whether a company is a financial company 
under this title, the consolidated revenues derived from the ownership 
or control of a depository institution shall be included.
