
    (a) Compensation of Examiners.--Section 5240 of the Revised Statutes 
of the United States (12 U.S.C. 481 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in the second undesignated paragraph (12 U.S.C. 481), in 
        the fourth sentence, by striking ``without regard to the 
        provisions of other laws applicable to officers or employees of 
        the United States'' and inserting the following: ``set and 
        adjusted subject to chapter 71 of title 5, United States Code, 
        and without regard to the provisions of other laws applicable to 
        officers or employees of the United States''; and
            (2) in the third undesignated paragraph (12 U.S.C. 482), in 
        the first sentence, by striking ``shall fix'' and inserting 
        ``shall, subject to chapter 71 of title 5, United States Code, 
        fix''.

    (b) Funding of Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.--Chapter 4 
of title LXII of the Revised Statutes is amended by inserting after 
section 5240 (12 U.S.C. 481, 482) the following:
    ``Sec. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 12 USC 16.&gt;&gt; 5240A.  The Comptroller of the Currency 
may collect an assessment, fee, or other charge from any entity 
described in section 3(q)(1) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 
U.S.C.


1813(q)(1)), as the Comptroller determines is necessary or appropriate 
to carry out the responsibilities of the Office of the Comptroller of 
the Currency. In establishing the amount of an assessment, fee, or 
charge collected from an entity under this section, the Comptroller of 
the Currency may take into account the nature and scope of the 
activities of the entity, the amount and type of assets that the entity 
holds, the financial and managerial condition of the entity, and any 
other factor, as the Comptroller of the Currency determines is 
appropriate. Funds derived from any assessment, fee, or charge collected 
or payment made pursuant to this section may be deposited by the 
Comptroller of the Currency in accordance with the provisions of section 
5234. Such funds shall not be construed to be Government funds or 
appropriated monies, and shall not be subject to apportionment for 
purposes of chapter 15 of title 31, United States Code, or any other 
provision of law. The authority of the Comptroller of the Currency under 
this section shall be in addition to the authority under section 5240.

    ``The Comptroller of the Currency shall have sole authority to 
determine the manner in which the obligations of the Office of the 
Comptroller of the Currency shall be incurred and its disbursements and 
expenses allowed and paid, in accordance with this section, except as 
provided in chapter 71 of title 5, United States Code (with respect to 
compensation).''.
    (c) Funding of Board of Governors.--Section 11 of the Federal 
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 248) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
    ``(s) Assessments, Fees, and Other Charges for Certain Companies.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Board shall collect a total amount of 
        assessments, fees, or other charges from the companies described 
        in paragraph (2) that is equal to the total expenses the Board 
        estimates are necessary or appropriate to carry out the 
        supervisory and regulatory responsibilities of the Board with 
        respect to such companies.
            ``(2) Companies.--The companies described in this paragraph 
        are--
                    ``(A) all bank holding companies having total 
                consolidated assets of $50,000,000,000 or more;
                    ``(B) all savings and loan holding companies having 
                total consolidated assets of $50,000,000,000 or more; 
                and
                    ``(C) all nonbank financial companies supervised by 
                the Board under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Wall 
                Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.''.

    (d) Corporation Examination Fees.--Section 10(e) of the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1820(e)) is amended by striking 
paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
            ``(1) Regular and special examinations of depository 
        institutions.--The cost of conducting any regular examination or 
        special examination of any depository institution under 
        subsection (b)(2), (b)(3), or (d) or of any entity described in 
        section 3(q)(2) may be assessed by the Corporation against the 
        institution or entity to meet the expenses of the Corporation in 
        carrying out such examinations.''.

    (e) Effective &lt;&lt;NOTE: 12 USC 16 note.&gt;&gt; Date.--This section, and the 
amendments made by this section, shall take effect on the transfer date.


