                        INDUSTRIAL LOAN COMPANIES, AND CERTAIN 
                        OTHER COMPANIES UNDER THE BANK HOLDING 
                        COMPANY ACT OF 1956.

    (a) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 12 USC 1815 note.&gt;&gt;  Moratorium.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection--
                    (A) the term ``credit card bank'' means an 
                institution described in section 2(c)(2)(F) of the Bank 
                Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841(c)(2)(F));
                    (B) the term ``industrial bank'' means an 
                institution described in section 2(c)(2)(H) of the Bank 
                Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841(c)(2)(H)); 
                and
                    (C) the term ``trust bank'' means an institution 
                described in section 2(c)(2)(D) of the Bank Holding 
                Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841(c)(2)(D)).
            (2) Moratorium on provision of deposit insurance.--The 
        Corporation may not approve an application for deposit insurance 
        under section 5 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 
        1815) that is received after November 23, 2009, for an 
        industrial bank, a credit card bank, or a trust bank that is 
        directly or indirectly owned or controlled by a commercial firm.
            (3) Change in control.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), the appropriate Federal banking agency shall 
                disapprove a change in control, as provided in section 
                7(j) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 
                1817(j)), of an industrial bank, a credit card bank, or 
                a trust bank if the change in control would result in 
                direct or indirect control of the industrial bank, 
                credit card bank, or trust bank by a commercial firm.
                    (B) Exceptions.--Subparagraph (A) shall not apply to 
                a change in control of an industrial bank, credit card 
                bank, or trust bank--
                          (i) that--
                                    (I) is in danger of default, as 
                                determined by the appropriate Federal 
                                banking agency;
                                    (II) results from the merger or 
                                whole acquisition of a commercial firm 
                                that directly or indirectly controls the 
                                industrial bank, credit card bank, or 
                                trust bank in a bona fide merger with or 
                                acquisition by another commercial firm, 
                                as determined by the appropriate Federal 
                                banking agency; or
                                    (III) results from an acquisition of 
                                voting shares of a publicly traded 
                                company that controls an industrial 
                                bank, credit card bank, or trust bank, 
                                if, after the acquisition, the acquiring 
                                shareholder (or group of shareholders 
                                acting in concert) holds less than 25 
                                percent of any class of the voting 
                                shares of the company; and


                          (ii) that has obtained all regulatory 
                      approvals otherwise required for such change of 
                      control under any applicable Federal or State law, 
                      including section 7(j) of the Federal Deposit 
                      Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1817(j)).
            (4) Sunset.--This subsection shall cease to have effect 3 
        years after the date of enactment of this Act.

    (b) Government Accountability Office Study of Exceptions Under the 
Bank Holding Company Act of 1956.--
            (1) Study required.--The Comptroller General of the United 
        States shall carry out a study to determine whether it is 
        necessary, in order to strengthen the safety and soundness of 
        institutions or the stability of the financial system, to 
        eliminate the exceptions under section 2 of the Bank Holding 
        Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841) for institutions described 
        in--
                    (A) section 2(a)(5)(E) of the Bank Holding Company 
                Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841(a)(5)(E));
                    (B) section 2(a)(5)(F) of the Bank Holding Company 
                Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841(a)(5)(F));
                    (C) section 2(c)(2)(D) of the Bank Holding Company 
                Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841(c)(2)(D));
                    (D) section 2(c)(2)(F) of the Bank Holding Company 
                Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841(c)(2)(F));
                    (E) section 2(c)(2)(H) of the Bank Holding Company 
                Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841(c)(2)(H)); and
                    (F) section 2(c)(2)(B) of the Bank Holding Company 
                Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841(c)(2)(B)).
            (2) Content of study.--
                    (A) In general.--The study required under paragraph 
                (1), with respect to the institutions referenced in each 
                of subparagraphs (A) through (E) of paragraph (1), 
                shall, to the extent feasible be based on information 
                provided to the Comptroller General by the appropriate 
                Federal or State regulator, and shall--
                          (i) identify the types and number of 
                      institutions excepted from section 2 of the Bank 
                      Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841) under 
                      each of the subparagraphs described in 
                      subparagraphs (A) through (E) of paragraph (1);
                          (ii) generally describe the size and 
                      geographic locations of the institutions described 
                      in clause (i);
                          (iii) determine the extent to which the 
                      institutions described in clause (i) are held by 
                      holding companies that are commercial firms;
                          (iv) determine whether the institutions 
                      described in clause (i) have any affiliates that 
                      are commercial firms;
                          (v) identify the Federal banking agency 
                      responsible for the supervision of the 
                      institutions described in clause (i) on and after 
                      the transfer date;
                          (vi) determine the adequacy of the Federal 
                      bank regulatory framework applicable to each 
                      category of institution described in clause (i), 
                      including any restrictions (including limitations 
                      on affiliate transactions or cross-marketing) that 
                      apply to transactions between


                      an institution, the holding company of the 
                      institution, and any other affiliate of the 
                      institution; and
                          (vii) evaluate the potential consequences of 
                      subjecting the institutions described in clause 
                      (i) to the requirements of the Bank Holding 
                      Company Act of 1956, including with respect to the 
                      availability and allocation of credit, the 
                      stability of the financial system and the economy, 
                      the safe and sound operation of each category of 
                      institution, and the impact on the types of 
                      activities in which such institutions, and the 
                      holding companies of such institutions, may 
                      engage.
                    (B) Savings associations.--With respect to 
                institutions described in paragraph (1)(F), the study 
                required under paragraph (1) shall--
                          (i) determine the adequacy of the Federal bank 
                      regulatory framework applicable to such 
                      institutions, including any restrictions 
                      (including limitations on affiliate transactions 
                      or cross-marketing) that apply to transactions 
                      between an institution, the holding company of the 
                      institution, and any other affiliate of the 
                      institution; and
                          (ii) evaluate the potential consequences of 
                      subjecting the institutions described in paragraph 
                      (1)(F) to the requirements of the Bank Holding 
                      Company Act of 1956, including with respect to the 
                      availability and allocation of credit, the 
                      stability of the financial system and the economy, 
                      the safe and sound operation of such institutions, 
                      and the impact on the types of activities in which 
                      such institutions, and the holding companies of 
                      such institutions, may engage.
            (3) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to 
        the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the 
        Senate and the Committee on Financial Services of the House of 
        Representatives a report on the study required under paragraph 
        (1).
