
    (a) Capital Levels of Bank Holding Companies.--Section 5(b) of the 
Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1844(b)) is amended--
            (1) by inserting after ``orders'' the following: ``, 
        including regulations and orders relating to the capital 
        requirements for bank holding companies,''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following: ``In establishing 
        capital regulations pursuant to this subsection, the Board shall 
        seek to make such requirements countercyclical, so that the 
        amount of capital required to be maintained by a company 
        increases in times of economic expansion and decreases in times 
        of economic contraction, consistent with the safety and 
        soundness of the company.''.

    (b) Capital Levels of Savings and Loan Holding Companies.--Section 
10(g)(1) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(g)(1)) is 
amended--
            (1) by inserting after ``orders'' the following: ``, 
        including regulations and orders relating to capital 
        requirements for savings and loan holding companies,''; and
            (2) by inserting at the end the following: ``In establishing 
        capital regulations pursuant to this subsection, the appropriate 
        Federal banking agency shall seek to make such requirements 
        countercyclical so that the amount of capital required to be 
        maintained by a company increases in times of economic expansion 
        and decreases in times of economic contraction, consistent with 
        the safety and soundness of the company.''.

    (c) Capital Levels of Insured Depository Institutions.--Section 
908(a)(1) of the International Lending Supervision Act of 1983 (12 
U.S.C. 3907(a)(1)) is amended by adding at the end the following: ``Each 
appropriate Federal banking agency shall seek to make the capital 
standards required under this section or other provisions of Federal law 
for insured depository institutions countercyclical so that the amount 
of capital required to be maintained


by an insured depository institution increases in times of economic 
expansion and decreases in times of economic contraction, consistent 
with the safety and soundness of the insured depository institution.''
    (d) Source of Strength.--The Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 
U.S.C. 1811 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 38 (12 U.S.C. 
1831o) the following:
``SEC. 38A. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 12 USC 1831o-1.&gt;&gt;  SOURCE OF STRENGTH.

    ``(a) Holding Companies.--The appropriate Federal banking agency for 
a bank holding company or savings and loan holding company shall require 
the bank holding company or savings and loan holding company to serve as 
a source of financial strength for any subsidiary of the bank holding 
company or savings and loan holding company that is a depository 
institution.
    ``(b) Other Companies.--If an insured depository institution is not 
the subsidiary of a bank holding company or savings and loan holding 
company, the appropriate Federal banking agency for the insured 
depository institution shall require any company that directly or 
indirectly controls the insured depository institution to serve as a 
source of financial strength for such institution.
    ``(c) Reports.--The appropriate Federal banking agency for an 
insured depository institution described in subsection (b) may, from 
time to time, require the company, or a company that directly or 
indirectly controls the insured depository institution, to submit a 
report, under oath, for the purposes of--
            ``(1) assessing the ability of such company to comply with 
        the requirement under subsection (b); and
            ``(2) enforcing the compliance of such company with the 
        requirement under subsection (b).

    ``(d) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt;  Rules.--Not later than 1 year after the 
transfer date, as defined in section 311 of the Enhancing Financial 
Institution Safety and Soundness Act of 2010, the appropriate Federal 
banking agencies shall jointly issue final rules to carry out this 
section.

    ``(e) Definition.--In this section, the term `source of financial 
strength' means the ability of a company that directly or indirectly 
owns or controls an insured depository institution to provide financial 
assistance to such insured depository institution in the event of the 
financial distress of the insured depository institution.''.
    (e) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 12 USC 1467a note.&gt;&gt; Effective Date.--The amendments 
made by this section shall take effect on the transfer date.
