                        GOVERNMENT BAILOUTS OF SWAPS ENTITIES.

    (a) Prohibition on Federal Assistance.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law (including regulations), no Federal assistance may be 
provided to any swaps entity with respect to any swap, security-based 
swap, or other activity of the swaps entity.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Federal assistance.--The term ``Federal assistance'' 
        means the use of any advances from any Federal Reserve credit 
        facility or discount window that is not part of a program or 
        facility with broad-based eligibility under section 13(3)(A) of 
        the Federal Reserve Act, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
        insurance or guarantees for the purpose of--
                    (A) making any loan to, or purchasing any stock, 
                equity interest, or debt obligation of, any swaps 
                entity;
                    (B) purchasing the assets of any swaps entity;
                    (C) guaranteeing any loan or debt issuance of any 
                swaps entity; or
                    (D) entering into any assistance arrangement 
                (including tax breaks), loss sharing, or profit sharing 
                with any swaps entity.
            (2) Swaps entity.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``swaps entity'' means any 
                swap dealer, security-based swap dealer, major swap 
                participant, major security-based swap participant, that 
                is registered under--
                          (i) the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et 
                      seq.); or
                          (ii) the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 
                      U.S.C. 78a et seq.).
                    (B) Exclusion.--The term ``swaps entity'' does not 
                include any major swap participant or major security-
                based swap participant that is an insured depository 
                institution.

    (c) Affiliates of Insured Depository Institutions.--The prohibition 
on Federal assistance contained in subsection (a) does not apply to and 
shall not prevent an insured depository institution from having or 
establishing an affiliate which is a swaps entity, as long as such 
insured depository institution is part of a bank holding company, or 
savings and loan holding company, that is supervised by the Federal 
Reserve and such swaps entity affiliate complies with sections 23A and 
23B of the Federal Reserve Act and such other requirements as the 
Commodity Futures Trading Commission or the Securities Exchange 
Commission, as appropriate, and the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, may determine to be necessary and appropriate.
    (d) Only Bona Fide Hedging and Traditional Bank Activities 
Permitted.--The prohibition &lt;&lt;NOTE: Applicability.&gt;&gt;  in subsection (a) 
shall apply to any insured depository institution unless the insured 
depository institution limits its swap or security-based swap activities 
to:
            (1) Hedging and other similar risk mitigating activities 
        directly related to the insured depository institution's 
        activities.
            (2) Acting as a swaps entity for swaps or security-based 
        swaps involving rates or reference assets that are permissible 
        for investment by a national bank under the paragraph designated 
        as ``Seventh.'' of section 5136 of the Revised Statutes of the 
        United States ( 12 U.S.C. 24), other than as described in 
        paragraph (3).


            (3) Limitation on credit default swaps.--Acting as a swaps 
        entity for credit default swaps, including swaps or security-
        based swaps referencing the credit risk of asset-backed 
        securities as defined in section 3(a)(77) of the Securities 
        Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(77)) (as amended by this 
        Act) shall not be considered a bank permissible activity for 
        purposes of subsection (d)(2) unless such swaps or security-
        based swaps are cleared by a derivatives clearing organization 
        (as such term is defined in section la of the Commodity Exchange 
        Act (7 U.S.C. la)) or a clearing agency (as such term is defined 
        in section 3 of the Securities Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c)) 
        that is registered, or exempt from registration, as a 
        derivatives clearing organization under the Commodity Exchange 
        Act or as a clearing agency under the Securities Exchange Act, 
        respectively.

    (e) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Applicability.&gt;&gt;  Existing Swaps and Security-based 
Swaps.--The prohibition in subsection (a) shall only apply to swaps or 
security-based swaps entered into by an insured depository institution 
after the end of the transition period described in subsection (f).

    (f) Transition Period.--To the extent an insured depository 
institution qualifies as a ``swaps entity'' and would be subject to the 
Federal assistance prohibition in subsection (a), the appropriate 
Federal banking agency, after consulting with and considering the views 
of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission or the Securities Exchange 
Commission, as appropriate, shall permit the insured depository 
institution up to 24 months to divest the swaps entity or cease the 
activities that require registration as a swaps entity. In establishing 
the appropriate transition period to effect such divestiture or 
cessation of activities, which may include making the swaps entity an 
affiliate of the insured depository institution, the appropriate Federal 
banking agency shall take into account and make written findings 
regarding the potential impact of such divestiture or cessation of 
activities on the insured depository institution's (1) mortgage lending, 
(2) small business lending, (3) job creation, and (4) capital formation 
versus the potential negative impact on insured depositors and the 
Deposit Insurance Fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The 
appropriate Federal banking agency may consider such other factors as 
may be appropriate. The appropriate Federal banking agency may place 
such conditions on the insured depository institution's divestiture or 
ceasing of activities of the swaps entity as it deems necessary and 
appropriate. The transition period under this subsection may be extended 
by the appropriate Federal banking agency, after consultation with the 
Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the Securities and Exchange 
Commission, for a period of up to 1 additional year.
    (g) Excluded Entities.--For purposes of this section, the term 
``swaps entity'' shall not include any insured depository institution 
under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or a covered financial company 
under title II which is in a conservatorship, receivership, or a bridge 
bank operated by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
    (h) Effective Date.--The prohibition in subsection (a) shall be 
effective 2 years following the date on which this Act is effective.
    (i) Liquidation Required.--
            (1) In general.--


                    (A) FDIC insured institutions.--All swaps entities 
                that are FDIC insured institutions that are put into 
                receivership or declared insolvent as a result of swap 
                or security-based swap activity of the swaps entities 
                shall be subject to the termination or transfer of that 
                swap or security-based swap activity in accordance with 
                applicable law prescribing the treatment of those 
                contracts. No taxpayer funds shall be used to prevent 
                the receivership of any swap entity resulting from swap 
                or security-based swap activity of the swaps entity.
                    (B) Institutions that pose a systemic risk and are 
                subject to heightened prudential supervision as 
                regulated under section 113.--All swaps entities that 
                are institutions that pose a systemic risk and are 
                subject to heightened prudential supervision as 
                regulated under section 113, that are put into 
                receivership or declared insolvent as a result of swap 
                or security-based swap activity of the swaps entities 
                shall be subject to the termination or transfer of that 
                swap or security-based swap activity in accordance with 
                applicable law prescribing the treatment of those 
                contracts. No taxpayer funds shall be used to prevent 
                the receivership of any swap entity resulting from swap 
                or security-based swap activity of the swaps entity.
                    (C) Non-FDIC insured, non-systemically significant 
                institutions not subject to heightened prudential 
                supervision as regulated under section 113.--No taxpayer 
                resources shall be used for the orderly liquidation of 
                any swaps entities that are non-FDIC insured, non-
                systemically significant institutions not subject to 
                heightened prudential supervision as regulated under 
                section 113.
            (2) Recovery of funds.--All funds expended on the 
        termination or transfer of the swap or security-based swap 
        activity of the swaps entity shall be recovered in accordance 
        with applicable law from the disposition of assets of such swap 
        entity or through assessments, including on the financial sector 
        as provided under applicable law.
            (3) No losses to taxpayers.--Taxpayers shall bear no losses 
        from the exercise of any authority under this title.

    (j) Prohibition on Unregulated Combination of Swaps Entities and 
Banking.--At no time following adoption of the rules in subsection (k) 
may a bank or bank holding company be permitted to be or become a swap 
entity unless it conducts its swap or security-based swap activity in 
compliance with such minimum standards set by its prudential regulator 
as are reasonably calculated to permit the swaps entity to conduct its 
swap or security-based swap activities in a safe and sound manner and 
mitigate systemic risk.
    (k) Rules.--In prescribing rules, the prudential regulator for a 
swaps entity shall consider the following factors:
            (1) The expertise and managerial strength of the swaps 
        entity, including systems for effective oversight.
            (2) The financial strength of the swaps entity.
            (3) Systems for identifying, measuring and controlling risks 
        arising from the swaps entity's operations.
            (4) Systems for identifying, measuring and controlling the 
        swaps entity's participation in existing markets.


            (5) Systems for controlling the swaps entity's participation 
        or entry into in new markets and products.

    (l) Authority of the Financial Stability Oversight Council.--The 
Financial Stability Oversight Council may determine that, when other 
provisions established by this Act are insufficient to effectively 
mitigate systemic risk and protect taxpayers, that swaps entities may no 
longer access Federal assistance with respect to any swap, security-
based swap, or other activity of the swaps entity. Any such 
determination by the Financial Stability Oversight Council of a 
prohibition of federal assistance shall be made on an institution-by-
institution basis, and shall require the vote of not fewer than two-
thirds of the members of the Financial Stability Oversight Council, 
which must include the vote by the Chairman of the Council, the Chairman 
of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the 
Chairperson of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Notice and 
hearing requirements for such determinations shall be consistent with 
the standards provided in title I.
    (m) Ban on Proprietary Trading in Derivatives.--An insured 
depository institution shall comply with the prohibition on proprietary 
trading in derivatives as required by section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Wall 
Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.
