
    (a) Amendments to the Commodity Exchange Act.--Section 2(a)(1)(C) of 
the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2(a)(1)(C)) is amended--
            (1) in clause (i) by striking ``This'' and inserting ``(I) 
        Except as provided in subclause (II), this''; and
            (2) by adding at the end of clause (i) the following:
                                    ``(II) This Act shall apply to and 
                                the Commission shall have jurisdiction 
                                with respect to accounts, agreements, 
                                and transactions involving, and may 
                                permit the listing for trading pursuant 
                                to section 5c(c) of, a put, call, or 
                                other option on 1 or more securities (as 
                                defined in section 2(a)(1) of the 
                                Securities Act of 1933 or section 
                                3(a)(10) of the Securities Exchange Act 
                                of 1934 on the date of enactment of the 
                                Futures Trading Act of 1982), including 
                                any group or index of such securities, 
                                or any interest therein or based on the 
                                value thereof, that is exempted by the 
                                Securities and Exchange Commission 
                                pursuant to section 36(a)(1) of the 
                                Securities Exchange Act of 1934 with the 
                                condition that the Commission exercise 
                                concurrent jurisdiction over such put, 
                                call, or other option; provided, 
                                however, that nothing in this paragraph 
                                shall be construed to affect the 
                                jurisdiction and authority of the 
                                Securities and Exchange Commission over 
                                such put, call, or other option.''.

    (b) Amendments to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.--The 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is amended by adding the following 
section after section 3A (15 U.S.C. 78c-1):
``SEC. 3B. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 15 USC 78c-2.&gt;&gt;  SECURITIES-RELATED 
                      DERIVATIVES.

    ``(a) Any agreement, contract, or transaction (or class thereof) 
that is exempted by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission


pursuant to section 4(c)(1) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 
6(c)(1)) with the condition that the Commission exercise concurrent 
jurisdiction over such agreement, contract, or transaction (or class 
thereof) shall be deemed a security for purposes of the securities laws.
    ``(b) With respect to any agreement, contract, or transaction (or 
class thereof) that is exempted by the Commodity Futures Trading 
Commission pursuant to section 4(c)(1) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 
U.S.C. 6(c)(1)) with the condition that the Commission exercise 
concurrent jurisdiction over such agreement, contract, or transaction 
(or class thereof), references in the securities laws to the `purchase' 
or `sale' of a security shall be deemed to include the execution, 
termination (prior to its scheduled maturity date), assignment, 
exchange, or similar transfer or conveyance of, or extinguishing of 
rights or obligations under such agreement, contract, or transaction, as 
the context may require.''.
    (c) Amendment to Securities Exchange Act of 1934.--Section 19(b) of 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78s(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
            ``(10) Notwithstanding paragraph (2), the time period within 
        which the Commission is required by order to approve a proposed 
        rule change or institute proceedings to determine whether the 
        proposed rule change should be disapproved is stayed pending a 
        determination by the Commission upon the request of the 
        Commodity Futures Trading Commission or its Chairman that the 
        Commission issue a determination as to whether a product that is 
        the subject of such proposed rule change is a security pursuant 
        to section 718 of the Wall Street Transparency and 
        Accountability Act of 2010.''.

    (d) Amendment to Commodity Exchange Act.--Section 5c(c)(1) of the 
Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7a-2(c)(1)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Subject to paragraph (2)'' and inserting 
        the following:
                    ``(A) Election.--Subject to paragraph (2)''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(B) Certification.--The certification of a product 
                pursuant to this paragraph shall be stayed pending a 
                determination by the Commission upon the request of the 
                Securities and Exchange Commission or its Chairman that 
                the Commission issue a determination as to whether the 
                product that is the subject of such certification is a 
                contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery, an 
                option on such a contract, or an option on a commodity 
                pursuant to section 718 of the Wall Street Transparency 
                and Accountability Act of 2010.''.
