                        DERIVATIVE PRODUCTS.

    (a) Process for Determining the Status of a Novel Derivative 
Product.--
            (1) Notice.--
                    (A) In general.--Any person filing a proposal to 
                list or trade a novel derivative product that may have 
                elements of both securities and contracts of sale of a 
                commodity for future delivery (or options on such 
                contracts or options on commodities) may concurrently 
                provide notice and furnish a copy of such filing with 
                the Securities and Exchange


                Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. 
                Any such notice shall state that notice has been made 
                with both Commissions.
                    (B) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt;  Notification.--If no 
                concurrent notice is made pursuant to subparagraph (A), 
                within 5 business days after determining that a proposal 
                that seeks to list or trade a novel derivative product 
                may have elements of both securities and contracts of 
                sale of a commodity for future delivery (or options on 
                such contracts or options on commodities), the 
                Securities and Exchange Commission or the Commodity 
                Futures Trading Commission, as applicable, shall notify 
                the other Commission and provide a copy of such filing 
                to the other Commission.
            (2) Request for determination.--
                    (A) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; In general.--No later than 
                21 days after receipt of a notice under paragraph (1), 
                or upon its own initiative if no such notice is 
                received, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission may 
                request that the Securities and Exchange Commission 
                issue a determination as to whether a product is a 
                security, as defined in section 3(a)(10) of the 
                Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(10)).
                    (B) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; Request.--No later than 21 
                days after receipt of a notice under paragraph (1), or 
                upon its own initiative if no such notice is received, 
                the Securities and Exchange Commission may request that 
                the Commodity Futures Trading Commission issue a 
                determination as to whether a product is a contract of 
                sale of a commodity for future delivery, an option on 
                such a contract, or an option on a commodity subject to 
                the Commodity Futures Trading Commission's exclusive 
                jurisdiction under section 2(a)(1)(A) of the Commodity 
                Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2(a)(1)(A)).
                    (C) Requirement relating to request.--A request 
                under subparagraph (A) or (B) shall be made by 
                submitting such request, in writing, to the Securities 
                and Exchange Commission or the Commodity Futures Trading 
                Commission, as applicable.
                    (D) Effect.--Nothing in this paragraph shall be 
                construed to prevent--
                          (i) the Commodity Futures Trading Commission 
                      from requesting that the Securities and Exchange 
                      Commission grant an exemption pursuant to section 
                      36(a)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
                      (15 U.S.C. 78mm(a)(1)) with respect to a product 
                      that is the subject of a filing under paragraph 
                      (1); or
                          (ii) the Securities and Exchange Commission 
                      from requesting that the Commodity Futures Trading 
                      Commission grant an exemption pursuant to section 
                      4(c)(1) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 
                      6(c)(1)) with respect to a product that is the 
                      subject of a filing under paragraph (1),
                Provided, however, that nothing in this subparagraph 
                shall be construed to require the Commodity Futures 
                Trading Commission or the Securities and Exchange 
                Commission to issue an exemption requested pursuant to 
                this subparagraph; provided further, That an order 
                granting or denying an exemption described in this 
                subparagraph and issued


                under paragraph (3)(B) shall not be subject to judicial 
                review pursuant to subsection (b).
                    (E) Withdrawal of request.--A request under 
                subparagraph (A) or (B) may be withdrawn by the 
                Commission making the request at any time prior to a 
                determination being made pursuant to paragraph (3) for 
                any reason by providing written notice to the head of 
                the other Commission.
            (3) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt;  Determination.--Notwithstanding any 
        other provision of law, no later than 120 days after the date of 
        receipt of a request--
                    (A) under subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph (2), 
                unless such request has been withdrawn pursuant to 
                paragraph (2)(E), the Securities and Exchange Commission 
                or the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, as 
                applicable, shall, by order, issue the determination 
                requested in subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph (2), 
                as applicable, and the reasons therefor; or
                    (B) under paragraph (2)(D), unless such request has 
                been withdrawn, the Securities and Exchange Commission 
                or the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, as 
                applicable, shall grant an exemption or provide reasons 
                for not granting such exemption, provided that any 
                decision by the Securities and Exchange Commission not 
                to grant such exemption shall not be reviewable under 
                section 25 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 
                U.S.C. 78y).

    (b) Judicial Resolution.--
            (1) In general.--The Commodity &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt;  Futures 
        Trading Commission or the Securities and Exchange Commission may 
        petition the United States Court of Appeals for the District of 
        Columbia Circuit for review of a final order of the other 
        Commission issued pursuant to subsection (a)(3)(A), with respect 
        to a novel derivative product that may have elements of both 
        securities and contracts of sale of a commodity for future 
        delivery (or options on such contracts or options on 
        commodities) that it believes affects its statutory jurisdiction 
        within 60 days after the date of entry of such order, a written 
        petition requesting a review of the order. Any such proceeding 
        shall be expedited by the Court of Appeals.
            (2) Transmittal of petition and record.--A 
        copy &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt;  of a petition described in paragraph 
        (1) shall be transmitted not later than 1 business day after 
        filing by the complaining Commission to the responding 
        Commission. On receipt of the petition, the responding 
        Commission shall file with the court a copy of the order under 
        review and any documents referred to therein, and any other 
        materials prescribed by the court.
            (3) Standard of review.--The court, in considering a 
        petition filed pursuant to paragraph (1), shall give no 
        deference to, or presumption in favor of, the views of either 
        Commission.
            (4) Judicial stay.--The filing of a petition by the 
        complaining Commission pursuant to paragraph (1) shall operate 
        as a stay of the order, until the date on which the 
        determination of the court is final (including any appeal of the 
        determination).
