
    (a) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Establishment.&gt;&gt;  Interagency Working Group.--There is 
established to carry out this section an interagency working group 
(referred to in this section as the ``interagency group'') composed of 
the following members or designees:
            (1) The Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission 
        (referred to in this section as the ``Commission''), who shall 
        serve as Chairman of the interagency group.
            (2) The Secretary of Agriculture.
            (3) The Secretary of the Treasury.
            (4) The Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
            (5) The Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
        Agency.
            (6) The Chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory 
        Commission.
            (7) The Commissioner of the Federal Trade Commission.
            (8) The Administrator of the Energy Information 
        Administration.

    (b) Administrative Support.--The Commission shall provide the 
interagency group such administrative support services as are necessary 
to enable the interagency group to carry out the functions of the 
interagency group under this section.
    (c) Consultation.--In carrying out this section, the interagency 
group shall consult with representatives of exchanges, clearinghouses, 
self-regulatory bodies, major carbon market participants, consumers, and 
the general public, as the interagency group determines to be 
appropriate.
    (d) Study.--The interagency group shall conduct a study on the 
oversight of existing and prospective carbon markets to ensure an 
efficient, secure, and transparent carbon market, including oversight of 
spot markets and derivative markets.
    (e) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the interagency group shall submit to Congress a report on the 
results of the study conducted under subsection


(b), including recommendations for the oversight of existing and 
prospective carbon markets to ensure an efficient, secure, and 
transparent carbon market, including oversight of spot markets and 
derivative markets.
