                        FINANCIAL MARKET UTILITIES.

    (a) Federal Reserve Account and Services.--The Board of Governors 
may authorize a Federal Reserve Bank to establish and maintain an 
account for a designated financial market utility and provide the 
services listed in section 11A(b) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 
248a(b)) and deposit accounts under the first undesignated paragraph of 
section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 342) to the designated 
financial market utility that the Federal Reserve Bank is authorized 
under the Federal Reserve Act to provide to a depository institution, 
subject to any applicable rules, orders, standards, or guidelines 
prescribed by the Board of Governors.
    (b) Advances.--The Board of Governors may authorize a Federal 
Reserve bank under section 10B of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 
347b) to provide to a designated financial market utility discount and 
borrowing privileges only in unusual or exigent circumstances, upon the 
affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Governors then serving 
(or such other number in accordance with the provisions of section 
11(r)(2) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 248(r)(2)) after 
consultation with the Secretary, and upon a showing by the designated 
financial market utility that it is unable to secure adequate credit 
accommodations from other banking institutions. All such discounts and 
borrowing privileges shall be subject to such other limitations, 
restrictions, and regulations as the Board of Governors may prescribe. 
Access to discount and borrowing privileges under section 10B of the 
Federal Reserve Act as authorized in this section does not require a 
designated


financial market utility to be or become a bank or bank holding company.
    (c) Earnings on Federal Reserve Balances.--A Federal Reserve Bank 
may pay earnings on balances maintained by or on behalf of a designated 
financial market utility in the same manner and to the same extent as 
the Federal Reserve Bank may pay earnings to a depository institution 
under the Federal Reserve Act, subject to any applicable rules, orders, 
standards, or guidelines prescribed by the Board of Governors.
    (d) Reserve Requirements.--The Board of Governors may exempt a 
designated financial market utility from, or modify any, reserve 
requirements under section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 461) 
applicable to a designated financial market utility.
    (e) Changes to Rules, Procedures, or Operations.--
            (1) Advance notice.--
                    (A) Advance notice of proposed changes required.--A 
                designated financial market utility shall provide notice 
                60 days in advance notice to its Supervisory Agency of 
                any proposed change to its rules, procedures, or 
                operations that could, as defined in rules of each 
                Supervisory Agency, materially affect, the nature or 
                level of risks presented by the designated financial 
                market utility.
                    (B) Terms and standards prescribed by the 
                supervisory agencies.--Each Supervisory Agency, in 
                consultation with the Board of Governors, shall 
                prescribe regulations that define and describe the 
                standards for determining when notice is required to be 
                provided under subparagraph (A).
                    (C) Contents of notice.--The notice of a proposed 
                change shall describe--
                          (i) the nature of the change and expected 
                      effects on risks to the designated financial 
                      market utility, its participants, or the market; 
                      and
                          (ii) how the designated financial market 
                      utility plans to manage any identified risks.
                    (D) Additional information.--The Supervisory Agency 
                may require a designated financial market utility to 
                provide any information necessary to assess the effect 
                the proposed change would have on the nature or level of 
                risks associated with the designated financial market 
                utility's payment, clearing, or settlement activities 
                and the sufficiency of any proposed risk management 
                techniques.
                    (E) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt;  Notice of objection.--The 
                Supervisory Agency shall notify the designated financial 
                market utility of any objection regarding the proposed 
                change within 60 days from the later of--
                          (i) the date that the notice of the proposed 
                      change is received; or
                          (ii) the date any further information 
                      requested for consideration of the notice is 
                      received.
                    (F) Change not allowed if objection.--A designated 
                financial market utility shall not implement a change to 
                which the Supervisory Agency has an objection.
                    (G) Change allowed if no objection within 60 days.--
                A designated financial market utility may implement a 
                change if it has not received an objection to the 
                proposed change within 60 days of the later of--


                          (i) the date that the Supervisory Agency 
                      receives the notice of proposed change; or
                          (ii) the date the Supervisory Agency receives 
                      any further information it requests for 
                      consideration of the notice.
                    (H) Review extension for novel or complex issues.-- 
                &lt;&lt;NOTE: Time period.&gt;&gt; The Supervisory Agency may, 
                during the 60-day review period, extend the review 
                period for an additional 60 days for proposed changes 
                that raise novel or complex issues, subject to the 
                Supervisory Agency providing the designated financial 
                market utility with prompt written notice of the 
                extension. Any extension under this subparagraph will 
                extend the time periods under subparagraphs (E) and (G).
                    (I) Change allowed earlier if notified of no 
                objection.-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Time period.&gt;&gt; A designated 
                financial market utility may implement a change in less 
                than 60 days from the date of receipt of the notice of 
                proposed change by the Supervisory Agency, or the date 
                the Supervisory Agency receives any further information 
                it requested, if the Supervisory Agency notifies the 
                designated financial market utility in writing that it 
                does not object to the proposed change and authorizes 
                the designated financial market utility to implement the 
                change on an earlier date, subject to any conditions 
                imposed by the Supervisory Agency.
            (2) Emergency changes.--
                    (A) In general.--A designated financial market 
                utility may implement a change that would otherwise 
                require advance notice under this subsection if it 
                determines that--
                          (i) an emergency exists; and
                          (ii) immediate implementation of the change is 
                      necessary for the designated financial market 
                      utility to continue to provide its services in a 
                      safe and sound manner.
                    (B) Notice required within 24 hours.--The designated 
                financial market utility shall provide notice of any 
                such emergency change to its Supervisory Agency, as soon 
                as practicable, which shall be no later than 24 hours 
                after implementation of the change.
                    (C) Contents of emergency notice.--In addition to 
                the information required for changes requiring advance 
                notice, the notice of an emergency change shall 
                describe--
                          (i) the nature of the emergency; and
                          (ii) the reason the change was necessary for 
                      the designated financial market utility to 
                      continue to provide its services in a safe and 
                      sound manner.
                    (D) Modification or rescission of change may be 
                required.--The Supervisory Agency may require 
                modification or rescission of the change if it finds 
                that the change is not consistent with the purposes of 
                this Act or any applicable rules, orders, or standards 
                prescribed under section 805(a).
            (3) Copying the board of governors.--The Supervisory Agency 
        shall provide the Board of Governors concurrently with a 
        complete copy of any notice, request, or other information it 
        issues, submits, or receives under this subsection.


            (4) Consultation with board of governors.--Before taking any 
        action on, or completing its review of, a change proposed by a 
        designated financial market utility, the Supervisory Agency 
        shall consult with the Board of Governors.
