                          THE COMMISSION.

    (a) Securities Exchange Act of 1934.--Section 24 of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78x) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (d), by striking ``subsection (e)'' and 
        inserting ``subsection (f)'';
            (2) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (f); and


            (3) by inserting after subsection (d) the following:

    ``(e) Records Obtained From Registered Persons.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in subsection (f), the 
        Commission shall not be compelled to disclose records or 
        information obtained pursuant to section 17(b), or records or 
        information based upon or derived from such records or 
        information, if such records or information have been obtained 
        by the Commission for use in furtherance of the purposes of this 
        title, including surveillance, risk assessments, or other 
        regulatory and oversight activities.
            ``(2) Treatment of information.--For purposes of section 552 
        of title 5, United States Code, this subsection shall be 
        considered a statute described in subsection (b)(3)(B) of such 
        section 552. Collection of information pursuant to section 17 
        shall be an administrative action involving an agency against 
        specific individuals or agencies pursuant to section 3518(c)(1) 
        of title 44, United States Code.''.

    (b) Investment Company Act of 1940.--Section 31 of the Investment 
Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-30) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (c) and inserting the following:

    ``(c) Limitations on Disclosure by Commission.--Notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, the Commission shall not be compelled to 
disclose any records or information provided to the Commission under 
this section, or records or information based upon or derived from such 
records or information, if such records or information have been 
obtained by the Commission for use in furtherance of the purposes of 
this title, including surveillance, risk assessments, or other 
regulatory and oversight activities. Nothing in this subsection 
authorizes the Commission to withhold information from the Congress or 
prevent the Commission from complying with a request for information 
from any other Federal department or agency requesting the information 
for purposes within the scope of jurisdiction of that department or 
agency, or complying with an order of a court of the United States in an 
action brought by the United States or the Commission. For purposes of 
section 552 of title 5, United States Code, this section shall be 
considered a statute described in subsection (b)(3)(B) of such section 
552. Collection of information pursuant to section 31 shall be an 
administrative action involving an agency against specific individuals 
or agencies pursuant to section 3518(c)(1) of title 44, United States 
Code.'';
            (2) by striking subsection (d); and
            (3) by redesignating subsections (e) and (f) as subsections 
        (d) and (e), respectively.

    (c) Investment Advisers Act of 1940.--Section 210 of the Investment 
Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-10) is amended by adding at the end 
the following:
    ``(d) Limitations on Disclosure by the Commission.--Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, the Commission shall not be compelled to 
disclose any records or information provided to the Commission under 
section 204, or records or information based upon or derived from such 
records or information, if such records or information have been 
obtained by the Commission for use in furtherance of the purposes of 
this title, including surveillance, risk assessments, or other 
regulatory and oversight activities. Nothing in this subsection 
authorizes the Commission to withhold information from the Congress or 
prevent the Commission from


complying with a request for information from any other Federal 
department or agency requesting the information for purposes within the 
scope of jurisdiction of that department or agency, or complying with an 
order of a court of the United States in an action brought by the United 
States or the Commission. For purposes of section 552 of title 5, United 
States Code, this subsection shall be considered a statute described in 
subsection (b)(3)(B) of such section 552. Collection of information 
pursuant to section 204 shall be an administrative action involving an 
agency against specific individuals or agencies pursuant to section 
3518(c)(1) of title 44, United States Code.''.
