                          ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS.

    The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.) is 
amended by inserting after section 4D the following new section:
``SEC. 4E. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 15 USC 78d-5.&gt;&gt;  DEADLINE FOR COMPLETING 
                      ENFORCEMENT INVESTIGATIONS AND COMPLIANCE 
                      EXAMINATIONS AND INSPECTIONS.

    ``(a) Enforcement Investigations.--
            ``(1) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Notification. Filing.&gt;&gt;  In general.--Not 
        later than 180 days after the date on which Commission staff 
        provide a written Wells notification to any person, the 
        Commission staff shall either file an action against such person 
        or provide notice to the Director of the Division of Enforcement 
        of its intent to not file an action.
            ``(2) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Time period.&gt;&gt;  Exceptions for certain complex 
        actions.--Notwithstanding paragraph (1), if the Director of the 
        Division of Enforcement of the Commission or the Director's 
        designee determines that a particular enforcement investigation 
        is sufficiently complex such that a determination regarding the 
        filing of an action against a person cannot be completed within 
        the deadline specified in paragraph (1), the Director of the 
        Division of Enforcement of the Commission or the Director's 
        designee may, after providing notice to the Chairman of the 
        Commission,


        extend such deadline as needed for one additional 180-day 
        period. If after the additional 180-day period the Director of 
        the Division of Enforcement of the Commission or the Director's 
        designee determines that a particular enforcement investigation 
        is sufficiently complex such that a determination regarding the 
        filing of an action against a person cannot be completed within 
        the additional 180-day period, the Director of the Division of 
        Enforcement of the Commission or the Director's designee may, 
        after providing notice to and receiving approval of the 
        Commission, extend such deadline as needed for one or more 
        additional successive 180-day periods.

    ``(b) Compliance Examinations and Inspections.--
            ``(1) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Notification.&gt;&gt;  In general.--Not later than 
        180 days after the date on which Commission staff completes the 
        on-site portion of its compliance examination or inspection or 
        receives all records requested from the entity being examined or 
        inspected, whichever is later, Commission staff shall provide 
        the entity being examined or inspected with written notification 
        indicating either that the examination or inspection has 
        concluded, has concluded without findings, or that the staff 
        requests the entity undertake corrective action.
            ``(2) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Time period.&gt;&gt;  Exception for certain complex 
        actions.--Notwithstanding paragraph (1), if the head of any 
        division or office within the Commission responsible for 
        compliance examinations and inspections or his designee 
        determines that a particular compliance examination or 
        inspection is sufficiently complex such that a determination 
        regarding concluding the examination or inspection, or regarding 
        the staff requests the entity undertake corrective action, 
        cannot be completed within the deadline specified in paragraph 
        (1), the head of any division or office within the Commission 
        responsible for compliance examinations and inspections or his 
        designee may, after providing notice to the Chairman of the 
        Commission, extend such deadline as needed for one additional 
        180-day period.''.
