
    (a) Short Sale Disclosure.--Section 13(f) of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m(f)) is amended by redesignating paragraphs 
(2), (3), (4), and (5) as paragraphs (3), (4), (5), and (6), 
respectively, and inserting after paragraph (1) the following:
            ``(2) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Regulations.&gt;&gt;  The Commission shall prescribe 
        rules providing for the public disclosure of the name of the 
        issuer and the title, class, CUSIP number, aggregate amount of 
        the number of short sales of each security, and any additional 
        information determined by the Commission following the end of 
        the reporting period. &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; At a minimum, such 
        public disclosure shall occur every month.''.

    (b) Short Selling Enforcement.--Section 9 of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78i) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), 
        and (i) as subsections (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (j), 
        respectively; and
            (2) inserting after subsection (c), the following new 
        subsection:

    ``(d) Transactions Relating to Short Sales of Securities.--It shall 
be unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly, by the use of the 
mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce, or of any 
facility of any national securities exchange, or for any member of a 
national securities exchange to effect, alone or with one or more other 
persons, a manipulative short sale of any 
security. &lt;&lt;NOTE: Regulations.&gt;&gt;  The Commission shall issue such other 
rules as are necessary or appropriate to ensure that the appropriate 
enforcement options and remedies are available for violations of this 
subsection in the public interest or for the protection of investors.''.

    (c) Investor Notification.--Section 15 of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) 
        as subsections (f), (g), (h), (i), and (j), respectively; and
            (2) inserting after subsection (d) the following new 
        subsection:

    ``(e) Notices to Customers Regarding Securities Lending.--Every 
registered broker or dealer shall provide notice to its customers that 
they may elect not to allow their fully paid securities to be used in 
connection with short sales. If a broker or dealer uses a customer's 
securities in connection with short sales, the broker or dealer shall 
provide notice to its customer that the broker or dealer may receive 
compensation in connection with lending the customer's securities. The 
Commission, by rule, as it deems necessary or appropriate in the public 
interest and for the protection


of investors, may prescribe the form, content, time, and manner of 
delivery of any notice required under this paragraph.''.
