                        REPORTING.

    (a) Enhanced Disclosure and Reporting of Compensation 
Arrangements.--
            (1) In general.-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline. Regulations.&gt;&gt; Not later 
        than 9 months after the date of enactment of this title, the 
        appropriate Federal regulators jointly shall prescribe 
        regulations or guidelines to require each covered financial 
        institution to disclose to the appropriate Federal regulator the 
        structures of all incentive-based compensation arrangements 
        offered by such covered financial institutions sufficient to 
        determine whether the compensation structure--
                    (A) provides an executive officer, employee, 
                director, or principal shareholder of the covered 
                financial institution with excessive compensation, fees, 
                or benefits; or
                    (B) could lead to material financial loss to the 
                covered financial institution.
            (2) Rules of construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
        construed as requiring the reporting of the actual compensation 
        of particular individuals. Nothing in this section shall be 
        construed to require a covered financial institution that does 
        not have an incentive-based payment arrangement to make the 
        disclosures required under this subsection.

    (b) Prohibition on Certain Compensation 
Arrangements. &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline. Regulations.&gt;&gt; --Not later than 9 months 
after the date of enactment of this title, the appropriate Federal 
regulators shall jointly prescribe regulations or guidelines that 
prohibit any types of incentive-based payment arrangement, or any 
feature of any such arrangement, that the regulators determine 
encourages inappropriate risks by covered financial institutions--
            (1) by providing an executive officer, employee, director, 
        or principal shareholder of the covered financial institution 
        with excessive compensation, fees, or benefits; or
            (2) that could lead to material financial loss to the 
        covered financial institution.

    (c) Standards.--The appropriate Federal regulators shall--
            (1) ensure that any standards for compensation established 
        under subsections (a) or (b) are comparable to the standards 
        established under section of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act 
        (12 U.S.C. 2 1831p-1) for insured depository institutions; and
            (2) in establishing such standards under such subsections, 
        take into consideration the compensation standards described in 
        section 39(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 
        1831p- 9 1(c)).

    (d) Enforcement.--The provisions of this section and the regulations 
issued under this section shall be enforced under section


505 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and, for purposes of such section, a 
violation of this section or such regulations shall be treated as a 
violation of subtitle A of title V of such Act.
    (e) Definitions.--As used in this section--
            (1) the term ``appropriate Federal regulator'' means the 
        Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Office of 
        the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Directors of the 
        Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Director of the 
        Office of Thrift Supervision, the National Credit Union 
        Administration Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission, 
        the Federal Housing Finance Agency; and
            (2) the term ``covered financial institution'' means--
                    (A) a depository institution or depository 
                institution holding company, as such terms are defined 
                in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 
                U.S.C. 1813);
                    (B) a broker-dealer registered under section 15 of 
                the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o);
                    (C) a credit union, as described in section 
                19(b)(1)(A)(iv) of the Federal Reserve Act;
                    (D) an investment advisor, as such term is defined 
                in section 202(a)(11) of the Investment Advisers Act of 
                1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)(11));
                    (E) the Federal National Mortgage Association;
                    (F) the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation; and
                    (G) any other financial institution that the 
                appropriate Federal regulators, jointly, by rule, 
                determine should be treated as a covered financial 
                institution for purposes of this section.

    (f) Exemption for Certain Financial Institutions.--The requirements 
of this section shall not apply to covered financial institutions with 
assets of less than $1,000,000,000.
