
    (a) Amendment to the Securities Act of 1933.--Section 19 of the 
Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77s), as amended by section 912, is 
further amended by adding at the end the following:


    ``(g) Funding for the GASB.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Commission may, subject to the 
        limitations imposed by section 15B of the Securities Exchange 
        Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-4), require a national securities 
        association registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
        to establish--
                    ``(A) a reasonable annual accounting support fee to 
                adequately fund the annual budget of the Governmental 
                Accounting Standards Board (referred to in this 
                subsection as the `GASB'); and
                    ``(B) rules and procedures, in consultation with the 
                principal organizations representing State governors, 
                legislators, local elected officials, and State and 
                local finance officers, to provide for the equitable 
                allocation, assessment, and collection of the accounting 
                support fee established under subparagraph (A) from the 
                members of the association, and the remittance of all 
                such accounting support fees to the Financial Accounting 
                Foundation.
            ``(2) Annual budget.--For purposes of this subsection, the 
        annual budget of the GASB is the annual budget reviewed and 
        approved according to the internal procedures of the Financial 
        Accounting Foundation.
            ``(3) Use of funds.--Any fees or funds collected under this 
        subsection shall be used to support the efforts of the GASB to 
        establish standards of financial accounting and reporting 
        recognized as generally accepted accounting principles 
        applicable to State and local governments of the United States.
            ``(4) Limitation on fee.--The annual accounting support fees 
        collected under this subsection for a fiscal year shall not 
        exceed the recoverable annual budgeted expenses of the GASB 
        (which may include operating expenses, capital, and accrued 
        items).
            ``(5) Rules of construction.--
                    ``(A) Fees not public monies.--Accounting support 
                fees collected under this subsection and other receipts 
                of the GASB shall not be considered public monies of the 
                United States.
                    ``(B) Limitation on authority of the commission.--
                Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to--
                          ``(i) provide the Commission or any national 
                      securities association direct or indirect 
                      oversight of the budget or technical agenda of the 
                      GASB; or
                          ``(ii) affect the setting of generally 
                      accepted accounting principles by the GASB.
                    ``(C) Noninterference with states.--Nothing in this 
                subsection shall be construed to impair or limit the 
                authority of a State or local government to establish 
                accounting and financial reporting standards.''.

    (b) Study of Funding for Governmental Accounting Standards Board.--
            (1) Study.--The Comptroller General of the United States 
        shall conduct a study that evaluates--
                    (A) the role and importance of the Governmental 
                Accounting Standards Board in the municipal securities 
                markets; and
                    (B) the manner and the level at which the 
                Governmental Accounting Standards Board has been funded.


            (2) Consultation.--In conducting the study required under 
        paragraph (1), the Comptroller General shall consult with the 
        principal organizations representing State governors, 
        legislators, local elected officials, and State and local 
        finance officers.
            (3) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to 
        the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the 
        Senate and the Committee on Financial Services of the House of 
        Representatives a report on the study required under paragraph 
        (1).
