                          FINANCIAL REGULATORY SYSTEM.

    (a) Council of Inspectors General on Financial Oversight.--
            (1) Establishment and membership.--There is established a 
        Council of Inspectors General on Financial Oversight (in this 
        section referred to as the ``Council of Inspectors General'') 
        chaired by the Inspector General of the Department of the 
        Treasury and composed of the inspectors general of the 
        following:
                    (A) The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
                System.
                    (B) The Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
                    (C) The Department of Housing and Urban Development.
                    (D) The Department of the Treasury.
                    (E) The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
                    (F) The Federal Housing Finance Agency.
                    (G) The National Credit Union Administration.
                    (H) The Securities and Exchange Commission.
                    (I) The Troubled Asset Relief Program (until the 
                termination of the authority of the Special Inspector 
                General for such program under section 121(k) of the 
                Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (12 U.S.C. 
                5231(k))).
            (2) Duties.--
                    (A) Meetings.--The Council of Inspectors General 
                shall meet not less than once each quarter, or more 
                frequently if the chair considers it appropriate, to 
                facilitate the sharing of information among inspectors 
                general and to discuss the ongoing work of each 
                inspector general who is a member of the Council of 
                Inspectors General, with a focus on concerns that may 
                apply to the broader financial sector and ways to 
                improve financial oversight.
                    (B) Annual report.--Each year the Council of 
                Inspectors General shall submit to the Council and to 
                Congress a report including--
                          (i) for each inspector general who is a member 
                      of the Council of Inspectors General, a section 
                      within the exclusive editorial control of such 
                      inspector general that highlights the concerns and 
                      recommendations of such inspector general in such 
                      inspector general's


                      ongoing and completed work, with a focus on issues 
                      that may apply to the broader financial sector; 
                      and
                          (ii) a summary of the general observations of 
                      the Council of Inspectors General based on the 
                      views expressed by each inspector general as 
                      required by clause (i), with a focus on measures 
                      that should be taken to improve financial 
                      oversight.
            (3) Working groups to evaluate council.--
                    (A) Convening a working group.--The Council of 
                Inspectors General may, by majority vote, convene a 
                Council of Inspectors General Working Group to evaluate 
                the effectiveness and internal operations of the 
                Council.
                    (B) Personnel and resources.--The inspectors general 
                who are members of the Council of Inspectors General may 
                detail staff and resources to a Council of Inspectors 
                General Working Group established under this paragraph 
                to enable it to carry out its duties.
                    (C) Reports.--A Council of Inspectors General 
                Working Group established under this paragraph shall 
                submit regular reports to the Council and to Congress on 
                its evaluations pursuant to this paragraph.

    (b) Response to Report by Council.--The Council shall respond to the 
concerns raised in the report of the Council of Inspectors General under 
subsection (a)(2)(B) for such year.
